---
title: The Language Glosa
layout: post
published: true
---

## [Learning- and Textmaterial](index_materia.html)

## [Links](index_nexu.html)

## [Vocabulary](../gid/index.html)



Glosa is an international auxiliary language (*auxlang*), that was
developed by Lancelot Hogben (as *Interglossa*, GB, 1943), Ronald Clark
and Wendy Ashby (GB, 1972-1992). An auxlang is an artificial language
that should help the communication between speakers of different native
languages and so be a supplement to the national languages.

There are hundreds of drafts for such languages. Glosa is the most
advanced one of the type that linguists call *isolating*. That means,
that in Glosa there are no inflections. Words remain always in their
original form, no matter what function they actually have in the
sentence. A conventional grammar is missing. Although Glosa is a full
language. Grammatical functions are taken over by some operator words
and the word order (syntax). This disposition brings Glosa relationship
with many languages around the world: east-Asiatic languages like
Chinese, Creolean languages from Africa, pidgin languages and with
reservation the most important natural language - English.  
(In my personal opinion this way is not only interesting, but also the
best for an auxlang.)

A Glosa word represents an idea, but no part of speech. The same word
can function as a verb, noun, adjective or preposition within reason.
The Glosa words are taken from Latin and Greek. So they are known to
many people by foreign words or by the Roman languages. A limitated
vocabulary (*Glosa 1000* or *Centra Glosa*), easy to learn for
beginners, should satisfy for all day situations. For higher demands
(science, art, poetry) an extension (*Glosa 6000* or *Mega Glosa*) is
available.

The pronounciation is simple and regular. Its model was Italian and it
is similar to German. Glosa is written with the Latin alphabet without
special characters, there are no double vowels or consonants.
