---
authorName: patbe91
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;patbe91&quot; &lt;patbe91@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGczNjNrZCtpNGx1QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1035
msgSnippet: Hello! I am new to glosa and I am strongly convinced by the basic idea
  of concept-words, the affixes and much more. I have read the seminar1 problems.
  I
nextInTime: 1036
nextInTopic: 1036
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1213632973'
prevInTime: 1034
prevInTopic: 0
profile: patbe91
replyTo: LIST
senderId: LBFNIBNcU-o7wvKF1n-TiD3GaI2g9E-Xm-NfZtzoN2_e0ZkddBVAFFQvQhwobC4s9HKuJaiMDLKMBWlIhLpHrTiksw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: true
title: Better grammar discussion
topicId: 1035
userId: 339262914
---

Hello! 

I am new to glosa and I am strongly convinced by the basic idea of=
 
concept-words, the affixes and much more. 

I have read the 'seminar1' pr=
oblems. I still think that no language 
should be misused by trying to tran=
slate word by word and see if it 
works. Any language has its own way of ex=
pression and trying to copy 
a european-language sentence directly into glo=
sa is likely to fail.

Nevertheless, I have had quite some problems underst=
anding glosa 
sentences. And although writing in glosa might look easy at f=
irst 
sight, I think it is in fact difficult to avoid ambiguities. This 
ha=
s already been discussed here before, and I think the fact that 
most conve=
rsation here takes place in English is hinting at this 
problem. In my opin=
ion Daniel Macouin has some good ideas to improve 
the language, however, a=
s he remarks, 'heavy' ones. Perhaps some 
more English 'benchmark sentences=
' are needed which would be 
translated into standard glosa and variants li=
ke pan-glosa, as a 
basis for discussing precision and elegance.

I like Da=
niel Macouin's ideas but also propose here another solution 
for one of the=
 problems. 


My example sentence is:

U paleo kali avi kanta...

Does the =
above mean: "The old beautiful bird sings..." or "The old, 
beautiful bird-=
tune..." or "The Old sings beautiful bird-tunes..." 
is not immediately obv=
ious, it is hidden in the semantics. We need 
to mark the noun. In fact glo=
sa already has noun-markers. The U is 
marking the noun, however I really d=
o not understand why it is not 
placed next to the noun, like:

Paleo kali =
u avi kanta.

This would immediately signal to the reader that kanta is NOT=
 the 
noun, but avi is. This way, the U would serve two goals, to signal 
n=
umber and Subject of the sentence. Did I miss any reason for 
placing the "=
U" at the beginning of the sentence, except for being 
similar to English? =



This was my simple suggestion. But nevertheless, Pan-Glosa has 
better c=
hanges to offer. 

The "ge" to mark 'verbs of state' =3D adjectives is a ve=
ry nice thing. 
We still think too much in the categories of european gramm=
ar, I 
think.

In fact, when we say in glosa

"U avi habe (u) ponde", "U av=
i es ponde" and "U avi ponde"; A bird 
has a weight, a bird is heavy, a bir=
d weighs...

In all three cases we mean that "a bird has the property of we=
ight". 
All other differences are differences of European grammatical 
cate=
gories. And because of this, some English people try to avoid 
the word "be=
". A bird is not a weight! It is ambiguous and not very 
elegant. 

So I do=
 not like the "es" very much and to indicate that ponde is a 
noun is not n=
ecessary. So although glosa explicitly wants to avoid 
the pseudo-informati=
on which exists in these Europein-style 
constructs, it we can write glosa =
like this. But at the same time it 
does not provide unambiguous ways of ex=
pressing the real content: 
The interrelation of a noun's properties and ac=
tions, where it lacks 
some markers. On the other hand the Chinese property=
-marker is 'de' 
in the order adjective - de - noun. weight - de - avi

So =
I think "U avi ge ponde" is much more elegant than glosa's 
options and "no=
un - property marker - property - action marker - 
action" really seems a g=
ood scheme, in my opinion.

I myself had tried to implement such a scheme b=
y using "qa" as the 
property "qalita" marker and "ak" as the "aktio" marke=
r before 
reading Daniel's posts:

E.g. "Tri dromo-pe qa celero e fo-sono e=
 excesi sudo e alti keiro ak 
dice qa celero e excita e fo-sono tem dromo."=


Or also:

Celero e fo-sono e excesi sudo e alti keiro (plu) tri dromo-pe =
ak 
dice qa celero e excita e fo-sono tem dromo.

But ge and go are of cour=
se equivalent. 

I think pan-glosa might be:

Celero fo\sono excesi\sono al=
ti\keiro tri dromo-pe go dice ge celero 
excita fo\sono tem dromo.


I stil=
l contemplate if "jo" and "li" are needed. 

Jo Pan-glosa go es li u evolve=
 de Glosa ...

is more complicated than

Pan-glosa ge u evolve de Glosa ...=


or even shorter:

Pan-glosa ge evolve de Glosa ...


I will continue thin=
king about that.

Patrick




