---
authorName: sydpidd@aol.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: sydpidd@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGMwOS4zYmExYWZjZC4zNTk4ZjllMUBhb2wuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1038
msgSnippet: dear patrick and daniel i think that the things people are saying about  glosa
  is that there are various styles of the one language. if for instance, you
nextInTime: 1039
nextInTopic: 1040
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1214750689'
prevInTime: 1037
prevInTopic: 1037
profile: sydpidd1926
replyTo: LIST
senderId: SvUnRBECGy2Jt6hGby-WYJUihAdiHn4ApUrV7Ya_506Rz206oKcurZILQ30-oqxMFBPKQEJ7
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Better grammar discussion'
topicId: 1035
userId: 137587403
---

dear patrick and daniel
i think that the things people are saying about  glosa is that there are 
various styles of the one language. if for instance, you  wanted to write poetry, 
you would be free with word order and grammar. if you  needed to give precise 
instructions you would need some sort of strict grammar.  both styles have 
their places in glosa - here are some thoughts about the more  strict grammar. 
"yesterday, the men went to london"
we can divide the  sentence into "essential" section and "extra"(= 
"yesterday"). the essential  section can be divided into "indicated" part(="the men") 
and "information" part  which can also be divded into 2 "went" and "to london"
the indicating part  carries number - single/plural, the first part of 
information carries time -  past present and future ( "went"=past). the second 
information part is more  variable. 
I have been interested in glosa for about 30 or 40 years and often  found it 
difficult to understand what has been written in glosa, my memory has  become 
worse over the years so i call in the help of my computer to translate  
english to glosa and back. i first sketch the english into my version of glosa  
grammar and have the computer replace the "english" with glosa  words.i.e.
"ths man dd go to london "
"ths" is the introducing word of the  phrase- "ths=a/the" plural, "th=a/the" 
singular", "man" = the head word (noun -  countable word). the number is 
carried by the introducing word/  "dd"=did
so:-  
" yesterday , ths man dd go to london  "  
type this in and get
pa-di  , plu andro pa ki a  #( ## london  ## )#  
the fuss around "london" shows that the word is not in my  glosa/english 
dictionary      



   


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


