---
authorName: ML
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;ML&quot; &lt;pastedechouan@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDdEMTk2OUIwMDAzODRDQ0NCMDg4QjUyRjZFNThGNzU2QGRhdmlkPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGdjamdmdittanJrQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1049
msgSnippet: 'Hi David, You can get the complete interview at the following URL : http://www3.sympatico.ca/mlgr/chomsky.pdf
  As I understand him, Chomsky says Esperanto works'
nextInTime: 1050
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1223509311'
prevInTime: 1048
prevInTopic: 1048
profile: pastedechouan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 8w169byiOXt6Ix686yivNGw4ZVrIsVu_X-QfM6zHMxMaB3Wy8n9bs68XLVyip4Z_yqc6Woz3F8QtfDsvDVd6BPVyToY
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Hogben about esperanto'
topicId: 1047
userId: 130323325
---

Hi David,

You can get the complete interview at the following URL :

http:=
//www3.sympatico.ca/mlgr/chomsky.pdf

As I understand him, Chomsky says Esp=
eranto works only because it parasites european 
languages (like a software=
 on an operating system, I would say). It works only if we know 
one or mor=
e natural languages from indo-european tradition. Its implicit and unsaid r=
ules 
are based on a prior knowledge of a living linguistic universe. I sup=
pose that with Glosa 
the problem is more complex, but nevertheless similar=
. 

At my opinion, that is not related to the possibility or the impossibil=
ity of a "cultural" life 
in esperanto.

Michel Legare (ML)
Canada  


--- =
In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "David" <daveyporter@...> wrote:
>
> Hello ML=

> 
>    The original publication by Lancelot Hogben was a Pelican book fir=
st published in 
1943 by Penguin books called "Interglossa" - there are sti=
ll copies out there being sold by 
inet second hand booksellers.   The publ=
ication in question is aimed at linguists and the 
book is very technical (=
for me anyway).   However there are some interesting sections.  As 
far as =
I know Hogben's criticism of Esperanto was that there was a) surfeitt of gr=
ammatical 
rules  b) excessive number of essential words which the beginner=
 has to memorize  c) 
intrinsic unfamiliarity of the words themselves - I q=
uote from the book.   He also wrote 
(regarding the "unnecessarily large vo=
cabulary) that there was a "need for semantic 
spring-cleaning".   
>    We=
ndy Ashby - who publishes PGN (as you are probably aware) - would probably =
be 
able to shed more light on this.
>    I was unaware of Chomsky's commen=
t regarding auxiliary languages but have had 
discussions with others who t=
ake the line that an auxiliary language cannot succeed 
because "it has no =
soul" - meaning that it has no cultural background - for me that is  
irrel=
evant.   Language is about communication and the pressing need for the worl=
d's 
peoples  is for us to be able to communicate with one another easily a=
nd without 
misunderstanding.  The reason why the ruling class do not promo=
te an international 
language is probably because they do not want too much=
 communication among the 
world's workers who may get together and demand a=
n end to the insanity of this obscene  
economic system called capitalism t=
hat they administer.
>    Regards,   David.
>    
>    
> 
>   ----- Origin=
al Message ----- 
>   From: ML 
>   To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com 
>   Sent=
: Sunday, September 28, 2008 10:02 PM
>   Subject: [glosalist] Hogben about=
 esperanto
> 
> 
>   Hi,
> 
>   First, I apologize for my unskilful active =
use of English. I am going to do my best. 
Sorry, I 
>   cannot use Glosa y=
et :-)
> 
>   But, I am a former user of esperanto. I gave up esperanto for=
 some ideological, 
personal and 
>   technical reasons... Glosa seems to m=
e much more interesting as an auxiliary langage 
for 
>   humanity. What wa=
s the Hogben's opinion about esperanto ?
> 
>   What is your opinion about =
Chomsky's declaration that esperanto (as any other 
constructed 
>   langua=
ge) is not a language ? It seems that the text of the interview with Chomsk=
y is 
no more 
>   available on the web, but any of you who would like a PD=
F copy, can ask to me. 
> 
>   ML
> 
> 
> 
>    
> 
> -- 
> I am using the =
free version of SPAMfighter for Personal use.
> SPAMfighter has removed 289=
2 of my spam emails to date.
> Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.sp=
amfighter.com/len
> 
> The Trial and Professional version does not have thi=
s message in the email
> 
> 
> [Non-text portions of this message have been=
 removed]
>




