---
authorName: ML
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;ML&quot; &lt;pastedechouan@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDAwODAwMWM5M2QyYiQxYzI4YmUxMCQ1NDdhM2EzMCRAaXQ+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGdlbGczOCsybTU4QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1052
msgSnippet: "Bonjour M. Drapeau, \xC0 mon avis, les deux seules langues auxiliaires\
  \ construites qui ont le vent dans les voiles sont l esp\xE9ranto et l interlingua.\
  \ La "
nextInTime: 1053
nextInTopic: 1053
numMessagesInTopic: 13
postDate: '1225671592'
prevInTime: 1051
prevInTopic: 1051
profile: pastedechouan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Gl-0X3BQctZsDZHp5bHNq5KOo6N8vKc-UYl00ujHLyJp5jpDUn0EI1JaRRV3AfTj6q_34u2TMx7POImvHJSK68aaDWg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Glosa vs IDO etc.'
topicId: 1051
userId: 130323325
---

Bonjour M. Drapeau,

=C0 mon avis, les deux seules langues auxiliaires cons=
truites qui ont
le vent dans les voiles sont l'esp=E9ranto et l'interlingua=
. La
premi=E8re ne m=E9rite pas sa r=E9putation (sans compter le
mill=E9nar=
isme de son id=E9e interne qui finit, dans la pratique, par
donner la naus=
=E9e), et la seconde  devrait =EAtre mieux connue. Il y
a un texte en inter=
lingua (http://tinyurl.com/5mwsrb) que vous pourrez
sans doute lire facilem=
ent et qui fait saisir rapidement l'irr=E9alisme
d'une langue qui voudrait =
faire plaisir =E0 tout le monde, aux chinois
comme aux roumains. Bonne lect=
ure,

Michel L=E9gar=E9

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, <Jacques@...> wr=
ote:
>
> Hi,
>
> Just joined. I definitely want to learn an IAL and my prel=
iminary
screening
> tells me that the two best choices are probably Glosa o=
r IDO. I tend
to
> prefer GLOSA. Would you have any article or site where I=
 could find a
> comparison of the two, showing the advantages of Glosa over=
 IDO?
>
> In fact if Glosa is the most recent of the IALs, created after ha=
ving
looked
> at all the other ones created earlier, is there not somewhere=
 an
article
> comparing advantageously Glosa to all the other main IAL?
>
>=

>
> Thanks for your help.
>
>
>
> Jacques Drapeau
>
> ex Canadian diplomat=

>
> Living in Rome, Italy.
>
>
>
> PS: Is there a 'central authority' some=
where controlling the standards
and
> the spreading of Glosa worldwide? The=
 website www.glosa.org is very
limited.
> What is the main website(s) about=
 Glosa?
>
>
>
>
>
> [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
>=




