---
authorName: ken.scherer@comcast.net
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: ken.scherer@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGdmZXRkayt1YzdqQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDE0MDA4NTc3NzQuMTMwMzUxMjI2NTEzNzY3NDU2LkphdmFNYWlsLnJvb3RAc3owMTExYS53ZXN0Y2hlc3Rlci5wYS5tYWlsLmNvbWNhc3QubmV0Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1062
msgSnippet: "Hello Andoromeda, I agree with your comments.\_Do you have an opinion\
  \ about Slovio? slovio.com\_ What conlang / auxlang do you like most? Thanks, Shearzar\
  \ ... "
nextInTime: 1063
nextInTopic: 1063
numMessagesInTopic: 13
postDate: '1226513767'
prevInTime: 1061
prevInTopic: 1061
profile: shearzar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: T197WydPr7kLI5UmjSzqTMcvTBv557wK4cWJ-lGk8U2zdgyemkXeXsQgu9jTuPeZ91cOeY-TaUx7IWDkhXM
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: true
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Glosa vs IDO etc.'
topicId: 1051
userId: 340106237
---



Hello Andoromeda, 



I agree with your comments.=C2=A0Do you have an opi=
nion about Slovio? slovio.com=C2=A0 



What conlang / auxlang do you like =
most? 



Thanks, 



Shearzar 


----- Original Message ----- 
From: "ando=
romeda83" <andoromeda83@...> 
To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com 
Sent: Wed=
nesday, November 12, 2008 10:40:36 AM GMT -05:00 US/Canada Eastern 
Subject=
: [glosalist] Re: Glosa vs IDO etc. 






Hello, 

A language can be as pe=
rfect as it wants if it has no fellowship. 
Esperanto is linguistically one=
 of the worst auxiliary language but on 
the other hand still the only func=
tioning auxiliary language because 
it has a fellowship that really practic=
es it. 

Ido is linguistically better contructed than Esperanto, but has st=
ill 
a lot of unnecessary ballast from Esperanto. As a movement Ido is 
sma=
ll, but existing. 

Glosa is linguistically totally different than Esperant=
o and Ido. But 
I consider it problematic that Glosa has no mechanism to di=
stinguish 
between verb, noun and adjective in its lexic. 

But the greates=
t problem is: Glosa is practically dead. Just look at 
this group. No real =
activity. Glosa has no central authority and no 
Wikipedia, even Novial, In=
terlingue and Lojban have their Wikipedias. 
Lingua Franca Nova is an activ=
e community on the internet, but Glosa 
has nothing like that. So Glosa has=
 currently no signifigance at all. 

The people here should think about how=
 to change that.... 

Many greetings 
Andoromeda 

--- In glosalist@yahoogr=
oups.com , <Jacques@...> wrote: 
> 
> Hi, 
> 
> Just joined. I definitely w=
ant to learn an IAL and my preliminary 
screening 
> tells me that the two =
best choices are probably Glosa or IDO. I tend to 
> prefer GLOSA. Would yo=
u have any article or site where I could find a 
> comparison of the two, s=
howing the advantages of Glosa over IDO? 
> 
> In fact if Glosa is the most=
 recent of the IALs, created after 
having looked 
> at all the other ones =
created earlier, is there not somewhere an article 
> comparing advantageou=
sly Glosa to all the other main IAL? 
> 
> 
> 
> Thanks for your help. 
> 
=
> 
> 
> Jacques Drapeau 
> 
> ex Canadian diplomat 
> 
> Living in Rome, It=
aly. 
> 
> 
> 
> PS: Is there a 'central authority' somewhere controlling t=
he 
standards and 
> the spreading of Glosa worldwide? The website www.glos=
a.org is very 
limited. 
> What is the main website(s) about Glosa? 
> 
> 
=
> 
> 
> 
> [Non-text portions of this message have been removed] 
> 



[No=
n-text portions of this message have been removed]


