---
authorName: andoromeda83
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;andoromeda83&quot; &lt;andoromeda83@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGQ2Ni4zNjk0ZGI4NS4zNjRkNTQ0NEBhb2wuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGdmaTlodisyMjExQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1064
msgSnippet: Hello sybidd and Shearar! Thank you for your answers. 1. Wikipedia I never
  tried to create it. My Glosa is not so well. Generally Wikipedia has now a very
nextInTime: 1065
nextInTopic: 1065
numMessagesInTopic: 13
postDate: '1226615167'
prevInTime: 1063
prevInTopic: 1063
profile: andoromeda83
replyTo: LIST
senderId: OPdV3vnigHGR8lGUc_3uhw_9GKpitEnvBby-JLwRZeHDiQ6e-6UYjKwfONdehqE5DWMywsjvP977RqtqRv2CZeR0bI1CejX8YH0IVmA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Glosa vs IDO etc.'
topicId: 1051
userId: 297638457
---

Hello sybidd and Shearar!

Thank you for your answers.

1. Wikipedia
I neve=
r tried to create it. My Glosa is not so well. Generally
Wikipedia has now =
a very negative attitude against constructed
languages. So it will not be e=
asy, but I would support a Glosa Wikipedia!

2. Slovio

Yes, I know Slovio.=
 I recently became a moderator of the Slovio Group
after I wrote at the Slo=
vio Forum that we need it to activate the
group or to create a new one.

Sl=
ovio has two big problems. First it is overpolitiziced. Slovio is
used as a=
 tool to promote Panslavism and a slavocentric pro-russian
polical view. On=
 the other hand Panslavists and slavophiles prefer of
course Russian langua=
ge. So Slovio and the language development was
stepping in the background a=
nd political propaganda played the leading
role. So the language itself sta=
gnated.

Second. Slovio was created as a kind of Interlingua based on Slavi=
c
languages, but in fact Slovio has a lot simplistic grammar taken from
Esp=
eranto/Ido. So there was and is a huge pressure to make it more
"naturalist=
ic" slavic with a more complicared grammar. So the father
of Slovio created=
 a modified more complicated version of Slovio with
should exist parallel w=
ith "basic Slovio" under the slogan "flexible
grammer". In my opinion a big=
 mistake, because no one knows what kind
of Slovio he should use. Others we=
re even more radical started to
create offsprings of Slovio. The effect of =
all that is complete
confusion and stagnation of the very interesting Slovi=
o project.

Best regards
Doro

--

- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, sydpidd@=
... wrote:
>
> agree about lack of glosa fellowship but have you tried  - w=
ikipedia
 glosa ?
> syd
> 
> 
> [Non-text portions of this message have bee=
n removed]
>




