---
authorName: sydpidd@aol.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: sydpidd@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGM5Zi4zZmZhZDE1ZC4zNjVhOTM5NUBhb2wuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1075
msgSnippet: '....................the talk of chomski made me think about seagulls  -
  that is a large group of them circling quickly around. the birds are shreaking loudly.'
nextInTime: 1076
nextInTopic: 1078
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1227438485'
prevInTime: 1074
prevInTopic: 1073
profile: sydpidd1926
replyTo: LIST
senderId: PAKM-5CG3TT7ZYjsRyOCBXd9QYdS1I9xzH3wNFH2lLa9Bhn_4xTpDvaMaCdeB8KibhQBlAje
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Suffixes, Religio-do, & Little'
topicId: 1073
userId: 137587403
---

....................the talk of chomski made me think about seagulls  -
that is a large group of them circling quickly around. the birds are 
 
shreaking loudly. are they  warning  everybody of danger?
 
my sentence might be analysised:-
that+indic+sing is+info+pres  large+mod+info(+sing) group+info+sing 
 
them+mod+info+plur(indic+plur) circling(+info+pres) quickly(+mod+info+pres) 
 
around(+mod+info+pres). bird+indic+plur shreak+info+pres loud+mod+info. 
 
they+indic+plur warn+info+pres+cont everybody+info+plur  danger+info+sing  
 
=question  
 
in some languages such as slavic ones my additions are replaced by suffixes 
 
but glosa uses word order:-
the indic group     (indicated) is usually first next is info/pres etc and 
 
then the rest of the info
 
so:-
1)indic= that, 2)info+pres=is, 3) info+simple modifier (large)+  info/sing 
 
head
indic, info+sing, info
 
that is th large group of ths bird they d above quick circle .   
u-la es u mega grega de plu avi , mu du alti tako ciklo 
 
to shorten:-
indicate-singular -> icsi, indicate-plural ->icplu,  inform-past ->opa, info
 
-present ->onu, info-past ->opa, info-future ->ofu, info-singular  ->osi, 
 
info-plural ->oplu, moderator ->micsi  micplu mopa monu mopa  mofu mosi       
 

that icsi be onu th large mosi group osi of ths bird oplu they icplu  above 
 
monu quick monu circle onu. 
u-la iksi es onu u mega mosi grega  osi de plu avi oplu , mu du alti monu 
 
tako monu ciklo onu.
?? u-laiksi esonu u megamosi gregaosi de plu  avioplu , .........
i was thinking about doing this to esperanto and to slovo  but had trouble 
 
getting their vocabs from the web. with adjustments, it could be a way of 
 
uniting the 3 languages if their vocabs were easy to get at .separate 
 
suffixes would help ....... "bird oj"
shorter still:-isi ilu misi  olu
..........
 
syd
 
 


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


