---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDMwNjI2LjIwMDYxOS4xMjc2LjEuanVzdGkubWlsbGVyQGp1bm8uY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwNjI4MTczNTE2LjAwNzE2NzE4QHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 107
msgSnippet: '... errors in my translation may have some bearing here too, but I prefer
  not to think about it.) ... *  Thank you Gary for this valuable insight into the'
nextInTime: 108
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1056785716'
prevInTime: 106
prevInTopic: 100
profile: bliminus_107_ssaass
replyTo: LIST
senderId: ZygMUjvVaUjHeEJBsdeUVchxflKYMe9Jn1SRgW6Ki81krFpOBumbsfOwxKLvdiDjAIiT3mwiwGr1hiOb-Ns3Mqs2tOaSHwavPLA6Pblb0pPOk4RIXA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Translati de Qo Akti'
topicId: 100
userId: 147970330
---

At 08:06 PM 6/26/03 -0600, Gary Miller grafo:
>
>It is difficult to answer your question about which language influenced
>my translation into Glosa.    .....   (The fact that Marcel has found two
errors in my translation may have some bearing here too, but I prefer not
to think about it.)
> 
*  Thank you Gary for this valuable insight into the translation process,
and how the landscape of the mind influences it.

>   .....    I believe in _rhetoric_, the idea that language is
>simplified when we all try to follow set patterns.
>
*  I have noticed this trend towards formularisation in the translation
process, and have tried to counter-act it.  But my linguistic landscape is
fairly bare, with English and Glosa plus school-boy French.

   In recent years I have had a few lights directing me in my use of
language, and also in my hopes for Glosa: I am continuing to develop a
"feel" for language; and I believe that all language has a usually unseen
rhythm.  Then, of course, I have always believed in the power of the
sub-conscious and of intuition.
   And, for any of our group, who, up to now, believed that language was a
fairly logical, mechanical thing, I urge you to branch out and listen for
messages from the right hemisphere of your brain.  To practice the art of
communication I have written letters to the editor of the Australian
Financial Review .. and have had a hit rate of about 30%.  And, for the
study of rhythm and feel in language, I have attempted writing songs for
political activism.  My progress in learning Glosa took off when I started
writing the children's stories.  I did not translate them from
English-language versions: I retold them from memory.  I was a severe
critic of the work, and rejected any sentence that did not sound pleasant,
and was not immediately understandable - when read aloud.

   While Ron's advice to me was to ... 'play with the language' ... I did
not quite know what to do with it.  The idea of RETELLING children's
stories was my own idea.  I recommend, to you all, the retelling, from your
own minds, of the stories of your childhood.
   Needless to say, after the big decision has been made, and Glosa is
adopted as the world's auxiliary language, it will be nice to pick up a
book that is used in primary schools all around the world, and see in it a
story that you have written.

>One element of this rhetoric or style in my Glosa translating is that I
>like Hogben's idea of the "verboid" and sentence order.  I don't use them
>perfectly, but you will see a lot of  words like _akti_ and _gene_ in my
>translating.  Otherwise, I very much try to imitate what I have already
>seen in Glosa.
>
*  At one stage, I did try to bring the verboid and the auxilliary verb
into my discussions on Glosa, but most people are usually so distressed at
a language that appears to have no written set of instructions, that
"verboids" and "auxilliaries" seem completely off the Glosa learner's map.
   Actually Hogben seemed to plan the 'verboidisation' of almost all words,
whereas Ron and Wendy cut it right back to the small group of about twenty
general-purpose verbs that readily formed compound verbs - through the
addition of post-fix auxiliaries.  EG ki-ana = ascend

   Considering that I have just spent the day in going through _Qo Akti_, I
have no time left to budget for the Glosa translation of the above.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell



