---
authorName: shearzar
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;shearzar&quot; &lt;ken.scherer@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQ1MjE5ZmIwMDgxMTI3MDcyNm01YTg3NTgxNnRmMGM4YTk2ZGUxNGVkMjI2QG1haWwuZ21haWwuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGdnbWlmOSthbHFkQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1087
msgSnippet: 'How true. I m form  the South. We got that Southern Drawl. I don t know
  about them dip thangs, but I hear we have a mess of um. ... diphtongs. :) ... is
  ... '
nextInTime: 1088
nextInTopic: 1088
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1227803945'
prevInTime: 1086
prevInTopic: 1086
profile: shearzar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: RQoOU9CI9QBcTZhdO8aI7yjlA0H3VQNdWkKpen7BULrg0vxOG7rbT3sKx4J2zcldFSx5aybvH8DWX6a0FBLMuO-N_hsTDerLAAqm
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Mondlango is not better than Glosa'
topicId: 1083
userId: 340106237
---

How true. I'm form  the South. We got that Southern Drawl. I don't 
know ab=
out them dip thangs, but I hear we have a mess of um.

--- In glosalist@yah=
oogroups.com, "Llu=C3=ADs Batlle" <viriketo@...> wrote:
>
> I rarely have s=
een an English native capable of speaking without 
diphtongs. :)
> 
> 
> 20=
08/11/27, shearzar <ken.scherer@...>:
> > It is easy for me to mix grammars=
. One person's vowel is another's
> > consonant. The Ceqli conlang consider=
s L, M, N, Q, and R to be
> > vowels! No wonder I get confused. :-)
> >
> >=
 If Mondlango is another Esperanto Adjuvilo, I'm not upset.  That
> > would=
 be a great prank. My posts about that are based on my
> > hypothesis that =
"He Yafu", the name of the founder of Mondlango, 
is
> > an Esperanto pun f=
or "Hey, you fool" (or, "Ha! You fool!"?).
> >
> > Even if I'm wrong about =
Mondlango being an elaborate hoax, its 
use of
> > diphthongs muddies the g=
oal of one symbol one sound. I submit that
> > the listener would not easil=
y determine how to properly spell a 
word
> > with a diphtong in it. But, w=
hat ever, I don't care, Glosa words 
are
> > easier to pronounce.
> >
> > I=
 want it to be all Greek (and Latin) to me. :-)  Glosa is my 
friend.
> >
>=
 > Happy Thanksgiving. I have to go play nice with the in-laws. :-)
> >
> >=

> >
> > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Llu=C3=83=C2=ADs Batlle" <virik=
eto@> 
wrote:
> >>
> >> In esperanto, the name "vokaloj" (vowels) mean thos=
e symbols in 
the
> >> set "a,e,i,o,u".
> >> Although "j,=C3=85=C2=AD" (w,y=
 in your mondlango) have a vowel-like sound
> > for "i"
> >> and "u", they =
aren't counted in the set named "vokaloj".
> >>
> >> Don't mix grammars. :)=

> >>
> >> Nevertheless, if you are worried with things like those, I guess=
 
you
> >> will find only deception in the world of conlangs. Sooner or 
la=
ter.
> >>
> >> 2008/11/27, shearzar <ken.scherer@>:
> >> > I am still waiti=
ng on my 18 steps Glos book. It's on back 
order.
> >> >
> >> > Something f=
unny to share: Out of curiosity, I checked out
> > Mondlango,
> >> > a revi=
sion of Esperanto.
> >> >
> >> > A few Esperanto articles (one of which cal=
ls Mondlango
> > an "antecesor
> >> > del globish"), caused me to think Mon=
dlango is an Adjuvilo-like
> >> > Esperanto joke.
> >> > I spent hours look=
ing in vain for info about He Yafu. Surely, 
the
> >> > creator of a langua=
ge that purportedly has tens of thousands of
> >> > speakers since its crea=
tion in 2002 would have his picture
> > Online. Is
> >> > He Yafu an Espera=
nto pun for "Hey, you fool"?
> >> >
> >> > On mondlango.com, FAQ #20 says, =
"Mondlango has realized the 
dream
> >> > of 'one symbol one sound' both th=
eoretically and practically."
> > Yet,
> >> > we find on the Alphabet page =
the comment, "semivowels: w y.
> >> > Semivowels can be combined with vowel=
s to form diphthongs, such
> > as ay
> >> > [ai], ey[ei], oy[oi], aw[au], o=
w[ou]."
> >> >
> >> > Websters New World College Dictionary 4th Edition say=
s a 
diphthong
> >> > is, "a complex vowel sound made by gliding continuous=
ly from 
the
> >> > position for one vowel to that for another within the s=
ame
> > syllable,
> >> > as (ou) in down."
> >> >
> >> > Page two of the Al=
phabet on mondlango.com says, "The number of
> >> > syllables in a word is =
given by the number of vowels."
> >> >
> >> > Before we even get to Online =
lesson one, we see that Mondlango
> >> > comments about one symbol one soun=
d, diphthongs, and one vowel 
per
> >> > syllable are contradictory!
> >> >=

> >> > I still haven't found an auxlang that I like better than
> > Glosa!=
! :-)
> >> >
> >> >
> >>
> >
> >
> >
>



