---
authorName: andoromeda83
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;andoromeda83&quot; &lt;andoromeda83@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGdnbWQzMCtyN3EwQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGdnbjQzZCtjcHV0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1090
msgSnippet: Hello Shearzar! I am a member of the Mondlango Yahoo Group since some
  time. I don t think that it is a hoax. The name He Yafu is maybe a joke or pseudonym,
  the
nextInTime: 1091
nextInTopic: 1091
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1227821997'
prevInTime: 1089
prevInTopic: 1088
profile: andoromeda83
replyTo: LIST
senderId: QnxI5YJ825Ba94N1RKd4hNcr6_TfYdISMDO78reVmPjbdNjeKxMWyFEVuADFkPIg7Bp5F-iJbHECUw6RL36uAMQQOqa9OU-sfT6Vc3Y
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: Mondlango is no hoax!
topicId: 1083
userId: 297638457
---

Hello Shearzar!

I am a member of the Mondlango Yahoo Group since some time=
. I don't
think that it is a hoax. The name He Yafu is maybe a joke or
pseu=
donym, the real creator of Mondlango seems to be the guy "Li
Yongxiu" from =
the Yahoo group.

Mondlango has certainly nearly not many followers. There =
was at least
some activity in the chinese forum of Mondlango. To proof that=
 it is
hoax you must be able to read this, I am not. But you have to keep i=
n
mind that people from China have restrictions regarding the internet.
So =
not everybody can maybe active in Yahoo Groups etc. So it is hard
to say if=
 there are followers at all.

In the lingistic sense Mondlango is no big ap=
provement of Esperanto,
it still uses the "table-words" like kiu, kio, kie =
and the building of
Antonyms of Adjectives (malgranda for small), it only c=
hanges mal-
with another prefix. These items are since the days of Ido (190=
7)
erased from every Esperanto based language. Mondlango then uses more
Eng=
lish words instead of latin bases words. This is because the
language was d=
eveloped in China and the knowledge of Latin is a bit
limited. If it is no =
hoax then the most interesting thing in Mondlango
is that it is developed i=
n China and not in Europe or North America
like nearly all other auxiliary =
languages.

If it is an elaborated hoax then some invested really a lot of =
work in
it for a long time. There is too much work inside it to be a kind o=
f
joke. So I think Mondlango is no hoax, but on the other hand nothing
real=
ly new or spectacular. 

Greetings
Andoromeda


--- In glosalist@yahoogroup=
s.com, "shearzar" <ken.scherer@...> wrote:
>
> It is easy for me to mix gra=
mmars. One person's vowel is another's 
> consonant. The Ceqli conlang cons=
iders L, M, N, Q, and R to be 
> vowels! No wonder I get confused. :-) 
> 
=
> If Mondlango is another Esperanto Adjuvilo, I'm not upset.  That 
> would=
 be a great prank. My posts about that are based on my 
> hypothesis that "=
He Yafu", the name of the founder of Mondlango, is 
> an Esperanto pun for =
"Hey, you fool" (or, "Ha! You fool!"?). 
> 
> Even if I'm wrong about Mondl=
ango being an elaborate hoax, its use of 
> diphthongs muddies the goal of =
one symbol one sound. I submit that 
> the listener would not easily determ=
ine how to properly spell a word 
> with a diphtong in it. But, what ever, =
I don't care, Glosa words are 
> easier to pronounce.  
> 
> I want it to b=
e all Greek (and Latin) to me. :-)  Glosa is my friend.
> 
> Happy Thanksgi=
ving. I have to go play nice with the in-laws. :-)
> 
>  
> 
> --- In glosa=
list@yahoogroups.com, "Llu=C3=ADs Batlle" <viriketo@> wrote:
> >
> > In esp=
eranto, the name "vokaloj" (vowels) mean those symbols in the
> > set "a,e,=
i,o,u".
> > Although "j,=C5=AD" (w,y in your mondlango) have a vowel-like s=
ound 
> for "i"
> > and "u", they aren't counted in the set named "vokaloj"=
.
> > 
> > Don't mix grammars. :)
> > 
> > Nevertheless, if you are worried=
 with things like those, I guess you
> > will find only deception in the wo=
rld of conlangs. Sooner or later.
> > 
> > 2008/11/27, shearzar <ken.schere=
r@>:
> > > I am still waiting on my 18 steps Glos book. It's on back order.=

> > >
> > > Something funny to share: Out of curiosity, I checked out 
> M=
ondlango,
> > > a revision of Esperanto.
> > >
> > > A few Esperanto articl=
es (one of which calls Mondlango 
> an "antecesor
> > > del globish"), caus=
ed me to think Mondlango is an Adjuvilo-like
> > > Esperanto joke.
> > > I =
spent hours looking in vain for info about He Yafu. Surely, the
> > > creat=
or of a language that purportedly has tens of thousands of
> > > speakers s=
ince its creation in 2002 would have his picture 
> Online. Is
> > > He Yaf=
u an Esperanto pun for "Hey, you fool"?
> > >
> > > On mondlango.com, FAQ #=
20 says, "Mondlango has realized the dream
> > > of 'one symbol one sound' =
both theoretically and practically." 
> Yet,
> > > we find on the Alphabet =
page the comment, "semivowels: w y.
> > > Semivowels can be combined with v=
owels to form diphthongs, such 
> as ay
> > > [ai], ey[ei], oy[oi], aw[au],=
 ow[ou]."
> > >
> > > Websters New World College Dictionary 4th Edition say=
s a diphthong
> > > is, "a complex vowel sound made by gliding continuously=
 from the
> > > position for one vowel to that for another within the same =

> syllable,
> > > as (ou) in down."
> > >
> > > Page two of the Alphabet o=
n mondlango.com says, "The number of
> > > syllables in a word is given by =
the number of vowels."
> > >
> > > Before we even get to Online lesson one,=
 we see that Mondlango
> > > comments about one symbol one sound, diphthong=
s, and one vowel per
> > > syllable are contradictory!
> > >
> > > I still =
haven't found an auxlang that I like better than 
> Glosa!! :-)
> > >
> > >=

> >
>



