---
authorName: shearzar
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;shearzar&quot; &lt;ken.scherer@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGdnbjQzZCtjcHV0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGdnb2E5cituOXJnQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1091
msgSnippet: Hello Andoromeda. My post to the Mondlango group regarding my huntch that
  Mondlango is an Esperanto hoax isn t showing. Thanks for replying to my post about
  it
nextInTime: 1092
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1227861115'
prevInTime: 1090
prevInTopic: 1090
profile: shearzar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 03S2sPWTDXRNCEOv0fky0KEN8ji8fGT-Flw9p-b0J2zjhomvH-p93swtdGTmaYFbdqCMQg5IbYbtkBlo5f3HsRDM4_ONeUYRopuL
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Mondlango is no hoax!'
topicId: 1083
userId: 340106237
---

Hello Andoromeda.

My post to the Mondlango group regarding my huntch that =
Mondlango is 
an Esperanto hoax isn't showing. Thanks for replying to my 
p=
ost about it here. :-)

It would be funny if it is hoax, but I don't care e=
ither way. After 
looking at several of the many Esperantidos, I conclude t=
hat trying 
to reform Esperanto is a waste of time. I saw a list of over 10=
0 
Esperantidos that I compare to the over ten thousand Protestant 
denomin=
ations. Even Ido, the only viable Esperantido, can't compete 
with Esperant=
o.  Who knows, I might try to learn Esperanto (and 
Glosa).

Again, after a=
ll my searching, I still like Glosa best. Now, I have 
to stop talking and =
start doing! 



--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "andoromeda83" <andorome=
da83@...> 
wrote:
>
> Hello Shearzar!
> 
> I am a member of the Mondlango Y=
ahoo Group since some time. I don't
> think that it is a hoax. The name He =
Yafu is maybe a joke or
> pseudonym, the real creator of Mondlango seems to=
 be the guy "Li
> Yongxiu" from the Yahoo group.
> 
> Mondlango has certain=
ly nearly not many followers. There was at 
least
> some activity in the ch=
inese forum of Mondlango. To proof that it is
> hoax you must be able to re=
ad this, I am not. But you have to keep 
in
> mind that people from China h=
ave restrictions regarding the 
internet.
> So not everybody can maybe acti=
ve in Yahoo Groups etc. So it is hard
> to say if there are followers at al=
l.
> 
> In the lingistic sense Mondlango is no big approvement of Esperanto=
,
> it still uses the "table-words" like kiu, kio, kie and the building 
of=

> Antonyms of Adjectives (malgranda for small), it only changes mal-
> wit=
h another prefix. These items are since the days of Ido (1907)
> erased fro=
m every Esperanto based language. Mondlango then uses more
> English words =
instead of latin bases words. This is because the
> language was developed =
in China and the knowledge of Latin is a bit
> limited. If it is no hoax th=
en the most interesting thing in 
Mondlango
> is that it is developed in Ch=
ina and not in Europe or North America
> like nearly all other auxiliary la=
nguages.
> 
> If it is an elaborated hoax then some invested really a lot o=
f work 
in
> it for a long time. There is too much work inside it to be a k=
ind of
> joke. So I think Mondlango is no hoax, but on the other hand nothi=
ng
> really new or spectacular. 
> 
> Greetings
> Andoromeda
> 
> 
> --- In=
 glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "shearzar" <ken.scherer@> wrote:
> >
> > It is =
easy for me to mix grammars. One person's vowel is 
another's 
> > consonan=
t. The Ceqli conlang considers L, M, N, Q, and R to be 
> > vowels! No wond=
er I get confused. :-) 
> > 
> > If Mondlango is another Esperanto Adjuvilo=
, I'm not upset.  That 
> > would be a great prank. My posts about that are=
 based on my 
> > hypothesis that "He Yafu", the name of the founder of Mon=
dlango, 
is 
> > an Esperanto pun for "Hey, you fool" (or, "Ha! You fool!"?=
). 
> > 
> > Even if I'm wrong about Mondlango being an elaborate hoax, its=
 
use of 
> > diphthongs muddies the goal of one symbol one sound. I submit=
 
that 
> > the listener would not easily determine how to properly spell a=
 
word 
> > with a diphtong in it. But, what ever, I don't care, Glosa word=
s 
are 
> > easier to pronounce.  
> > 
> > I want it to be all Greek (and =
Latin) to me. :-)  Glosa is my 
friend.
> > 
> > Happy Thanksgiving. I have=
 to go play nice with the in-laws. :-)
> > 
> >  
> > 
> > --- In glosalist=
@yahoogroups.com, "Llu=C3=ADs Batlle" <viriketo@> 
wrote:
> > >
> > > In es=
peranto, the name "vokaloj" (vowels) mean those symbols in 
the
> > > set "=
a,e,i,o,u".
> > > Although "j,=C5=AD" (w,y in your mondlango) have a vowel-=
like sound 
> > for "i"
> > > and "u", they aren't counted in the set named=
 "vokaloj".
> > > 
> > > Don't mix grammars. :)
> > > 
> > > Nevertheless, =
if you are worried with things like those, I 
guess you
> > > will find onl=
y deception in the world of conlangs. Sooner or 
later.
> > > 
> > > 2008/1=
1/27, shearzar <ken.scherer@>:
> > > > I am still waiting on my 18 steps Gl=
os book. It's on back 
order.
> > > >
> > > > Something funny to share: Out=
 of curiosity, I checked out 
> > Mondlango,
> > > > a revision of Esperant=
o.
> > > >
> > > > A few Esperanto articles (one of which calls Mondlango 
=
> > an "antecesor
> > > > del globish"), caused me to think Mondlango is an=
 Adjuvilo-
like
> > > > Esperanto joke.
> > > > I spent hours looking in va=
in for info about He Yafu. Surely, 
the
> > > > creator of a language that =
purportedly has tens of thousands 
of
> > > > speakers since its creation i=
n 2002 would have his picture 
> > Online. Is
> > > > He Yafu an Esperanto =
pun for "Hey, you fool"?
> > > >
> > > > On mondlango.com, FAQ #20 says, "M=
ondlango has realized the 
dream
> > > > of 'one symbol one sound' both the=
oretically and 
practically." 
> > Yet,
> > > > we find on the Alphabet pag=
e the comment, "semivowels: w y.
> > > > Semivowels can be combined with vo=
wels to form diphthongs, 
such 
> > as ay
> > > > [ai], ey[ei], oy[oi], aw[=
au], ow[ou]."
> > > >
> > > > Websters New World College Dictionary 4th Edi=
tion says a 
diphthong
> > > > is, "a complex vowel sound made by gliding c=
ontinuously from 
the
> > > > position for one vowel to that for another wi=
thin the same 
> > syllable,
> > > > as (ou) in down."
> > > >
> > > > Page=
 two of the Alphabet on mondlango.com says, "The number of
> > > > syllable=
s in a word is given by the number of vowels."
> > > >
> > > > Before we ev=
en get to Online lesson one, we see that Mondlango
> > > > comments about o=
ne symbol one sound, diphthongs, and one 
vowel per
> > > > syllable are co=
ntradictory!
> > > >
> > > > I still haven't found an auxlang that I like b=
etter than 
> > Glosa!! :-)
> > > >
> > > >
> > >
> >
>



