---
authorName: shearzar
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;shearzar&quot; &lt;ken.scherer@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGdrdWdjbStiOXNnQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGdsMDEwMCtpNTlwQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1107
msgSnippet: I ve studied Sona a bit. It is a very good conlang.  However, I still
  like the Greek and Latin etymology of Glosa more than the a priori word base of
  Sona,
nextInTime: 1108
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1232308032'
prevInTime: 1106
prevInTopic: 1105
profile: shearzar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: jzh-Bj72awh28nPebSkpLca-T1p2cXU-EXwMHvdU33xzo2OVlR4GdffSbx_GXjqvo-IZgv1DVU_WgjJnh80DNXVGpfKJCfMdLcQZ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: What do you think of the Sona language (Glosa vs Sona)?'
topicId: 1102
userId: 340106237
---

I've studied Sona a bit. It is a very good conlang.  However, I still 
like=
 the Greek and Latin etymology of Glosa more than the a priori 
word base o=
f Sona, Ceqli, and others. And I much more prefer Glosa 
over Esperanto and=
 its many Esperantidos.  

Personally, I would prefer Glosa to be 100% Gree=
k, but I understand 
that Greek borrows a lot from Latin. So I wouldn't try=
 to be a Greek 
purest - a loosing battle.  I might do away with using all =
those 
dashes.  But, then again, I don't mind them either. Actually, the 
o=
nly thing I think I would change are minor words that I think are 
embarras=
ing, like using 'pusi' for the word 'little' - I would use 
the Greek world=
 'mikro' for 'little'. But, hey, I can use the word 
mikro for little if I =
want to.  So, that's not a real issue for me 
either. :-)

All that said, t=
he only thing that I would really change is how Glosa 
is marketed.  The cu=
rrent copyright owner of Glosa is doing a poor, 
poor, poor job of promotin=
g it.  I orderd the book '18 Steps to 
Fluency in Euro-Glosa' and did't rec=
ieve it till over two months 
later. There is an Online version of it, but =
a lot of material is 
left out, I suspect on purpose, so you have order the=
 book to really 
use the information.  I'm positive that if all the Glosa l=
earning 
material was provided freely Online, the owner(s) of it could 
cap=
italize on selling other Glosa books and items, including flags, 
patches, =
etc.  

I don't plan to learn Glosa to be part of some utopian-minded 
insi=
gnificant group. I want to learn it to have fun and maybe share  
some of m=
y own short stories and eclectic views Online. If I had the 
money, skills,=
 and resources, I would promote Glosa like Klingon is 
promoted. Why not ma=
ke up fictional/sci-fi worlds to promote Glosa?  
Imagine how many more peo=
ple would enjoy Klingon if it was as easy to 
learn as Glosa!  I'm sure the=
 few people who can carry on live verbal 
communications in Glosa would not=
 mind Glosa being used like Klingon 
if it increased the number of Glosalis=
ts.

Long Live Glosa!

Sarv        


--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "ma=
ster1077" <master1077@...> wrote:
>
> Sona is a ConstructedLanguage created=
 by KennethSearight (1883-
1957).
> Sona is mainly an a priori language. Se=
aright, a polyglot and 
amateur
> linguist, drew grammatical principles fro=
m a number of sources:
> Chinese, Japanese, Arabic, Pushtu (an Afghan langu=
age), Persian,
> English, French, Russian, Italian, and Indo-European roots=
.
> 
> Sona is an agglutinative language. It has a lexicon of 375 radicals =

or
> ideograms (Searight's term). Although Sona is written with Latin
> ch=
aracters, Searight compared each radical to Chinese (or Japanese)
> ideogra=
ms: indivisible elements of meaning.
> 
> Each radical is mono- or di-sylla=
bic, in the form CV (ex: to), VCV
> (ato), or CVn (ton). Only a, i, and u a=
re used before a consonant to
> make a radical, and no disyllabic radical i=
s made with the 
consonants
> j, c, h, x, v, or f. An additional set of rad=
icals, of the form V 
(i),
> Vn (on), and uV (uo), round out the lexicon. R=
adicals are always
> written in lowercase, and punctuation is mostly avoide=
d and
> unspecified, except for terminal period ("."). 
> 
> What do you th=
ink of it? Have you ever heard of it before?
>



