---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDMwNjI3MTM0NDU1LjY4NDY1LnFtYWlsQHdlYjYwMDA0Lm1haWwueWFob28uY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwNjI5MTExMzQ4LjAwNzBlMTkwQHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwNjI2MDEyMjI5LjAwNjlmOTgwQHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
layout: email
msgId: 110
msgSnippet: '... *   Phew! Before I spent time on this short list, I d like to know
  what s in it for the world!? ... Permite mi: introduce mi fratri a tu.     (Bro
  Jed'
nextInTime: 111
nextInTopic: 113
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1056849228'
prevInTime: 109
prevInTopic: 106
profile: bliminus_107_ssaass
replyTo: LIST
senderId: CY5705c_npm4eJ_iX9gOH1BpLD_Lz_9wyl22AzBJBCXSAlSKtZEJWxxQIhMl9YDTbvH4QIbZwGkdLEPTtlhZzCcCx4Z6CCsVjxwkldeJu1xULoOV5A
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] plu Glosa sko'
topicId: 97
userId: 147970330
---

At 06:44 AM 6/27/03 -0700, you wrote:
>Karo plu lista-pe
>
>I've decided to=
 adapt some old teaching materials for
>use with Glosa. I'd be pleased if s=
ome folk would care
>to post some Glosa translations of the first lesson's
=
>phrases {or at least of the more interesting ones :)}.
>I'll post a link s=
o you can see my efforts in a few
>days {when I get it done}.
>
>Poli ami s=
aluta ex
>Nick
>
*   Phew!

    Before I spent time on this 'short' list, I=
'd like to know what's in it
for the world!?
>
>First Contacts
>
>Good morn=
ing, Sir!                 Boni di, monsieur.
>Good evening, Madam!         =
      Boni vespera, madame.
>Good night, Miss Jones!            Boni nokta,=
 Ms Jones.
>Good bye, my dear friend!          Vale, mi karo amika.
>See yo=
u again soon!                Fu re-vide tu, tosto.
>How are you?           =
            Qe, tu sani es boni?  // Komo tu?
>I=92m not very well         =
         Mi ne habe boni sani.
>Very well, thank you               Fo boni,=
 gracia.
>Allow me to introduce my brother to you
   Permite mi: introduce =
mi fratri a tu.     (Bro Jed from Texas)
>Delighted to make your acquaintan=
ce        (historo-retro lingua)
   Fo hedo de ski tu
>How do you do?      =
                       (   "      "      "  )
   Komo tu? 
>I=92m very plea=
sed to meet you       Mi habe fo hedo de enkontro tu

   Having trouble bre=
athing: the nostalgia is killing me.
   This is Nineteenth Century phrase-b=
ook stuff, and 
   Syrupy-sweet, politically correct establishment language=
.

>The pleasure is mine                (I take the oil fields next week)
 =
     U gluko es pro mi.          
>Please excuse me. I must go now. Place h=
abe mi apo-logi: mi nece ki nu.
>Must you go already?             Qe, tu ne=
ce ki, jam? 
>Could you come and see me tomorrow?  Qe, tu pote visita mi, f=
u-di.
>I=92ll be pleased to see you again     Mi fu habe hedo de re-vide tu=
.
>When?                              Qo-tem?
>At once                     =
       Nu, imedia!
>As soon as possible      Iso tosto tu pote akti. // Tos=
to iso posi!
>Always                             Holo-tem
>Never           =
                   Nuli-tem
>Sometimes                          Plu vario t=
em   // Vario-tem
>Often                              Freqe
>Seldom        =
                     Pusi-tem
>Today                              Nu-di
>Ye=
sterday                          Pa-di 
>The day before yesterday          =
 U di pre pa-di
>Tomorrow                           Fu-di
>The day after to=
morrow             U di po fu-di
>The next day                       U seqe=
 di
>The day before                     U previo di  
>Can I be of any use =
to you?        Qe, tu pote uti mi?   
>Can I do anything for you?         Q=
e, mi pote auxi tu?
>Please!                            Place: id habe urge=
nti!
>Did I hurt you?                    Qe, mi dona noku a tu? 
>I am very=
 sorry                    Mi este tristi pro tu.
>Don=92t mention it!      =
            Ne dice de id.
>It was my fault                    Mi pa kausa =
u falta.
>There=92s no harm done               Nuli noku acide.
>Pardon!   =
                         Pardo mi!?  //  Skuzi! (Italian)
>I beg your pardo=
n!                 Mi vo habe tu pardo!
                  ?                =
 Place, pardo mi? 
>Yes                                Ja! 
>No            =
                     No!
>Perhaps                            Posi.  //  Fo =
posi.    
>Certainly                          Certe.  //  Ko certe. // Asur=
a.
>Probably                           Probabili.  // Probabili so.   
>Wha=
t=92s the matter (with you)?      Qe, tu habe u problema?
>I=92m all right,=
 thank you           Mi este boni, gracia. // Mi es O.K.
>It seems to me   =
                  Id sembla a mi ... 
>I=92m sure                          =
 Mi habe certa.
>I don=92t mind                       Mi habe nuli objekti.=
//Nuli opinio.
>Where are you?                     Qe, tu es qo-lo?
>I=92m =
at home                        Mi es to (mi) domi.
>Where are you coming fr=
om?     Ex qo-lo tu veni?//Qe, tu veni ex qo-lo?
>From the library         =
          Mi veni ex u Libra-do.
>Where are you going?               Qe, qo=
-lo tu ki?
>To the station                     Mi ki ad u stationa.
>Which =
way is the post office?      Qe, qod direkti ad u Posta Oficia?
>Come with =
me. I=92ll show you the way.   Veni ko mi. Mi direkti tu la.
>Quickly!     =
                      Presto!
>Hurry up!                       Veni tako! /=
/ Ki tako! //Akti ma tako!
>Are you ready?                     Qe, tu es ge=
-prepara?
>I=92m not ready yet                  Mi ne es ge-prepara.
>I=92m=
 waiting for you                Mi atende tu.  //   Mi du atende tu.
>I=92m=
 coming                         Mi veni.   //  Mi du veni.
>I=92m in a grea=
t hurry               Mi nece ki tako.
>I haven=92t time to wait           =
  Mi habe nuli tem pro atende.
>I looked for you everywhere        Mi pa ce=
rka tu, holo-lo. //
                                      Mi pa cerka holo-=
lo pro tu.
>I couldn=92t find you anywhere       Mi ne pote detekti tu, ali=
-lo.
>Do you speak Glosa?                Qe, tu dice Glosa?
>I can read and=
 write Glosa, but I cannot speak it yet
   Mi pote lekto e grafo Glosa, sed=
, a-nu, mi ne pote dice id.
>What do you call this in Glosa?    Qod es nima=
 de u-ci uti Glosa?
>This is an international/untranslatable word
         =
                           U-ci eqa un internatio verb.  ::
               =
                 Il es nuli eqa verbi pro u-ci in Glosa.
>Does anyone here =
speak English?    Qe, uno-pe ci dice England-lingua?
>I might understand if=
 you spoke slowly
             Si tu dice lento, mi posi logi tu.
>What doe=
s this French word mean?   
                              Qe, u-ci Francais=
-verbi habe qod semani?
>I don=92t speak French, but I speak Russian
      =
                     Mi ne dice Francais, sed mi dice Rusiji.
>Do you know =
that man?              Qe, tu ski u-la andro? 
>I've never seen him before =
        Mi pa vide an nuli-tem, pre-nu.
>I don=92t know                    =
   Mi ne ski.
>I think so                         Mi puta so.  //  Mi puta =
id es so.
>I don=92t think so                   Mi puta id ne es so.
>What =
is this?                      Qod ra eqa u-ci?  //  U-ci eqa qod?
>It=92s a=
 modern church               Id eqa u moderni eklesia.
>I don=92t like it. =
It looks like a warehouse
                  Mi ne amo id.  Id habe un apare=
 de u stora-do.
>You=92re right             Tu habe korekti. // Tu opinio e=
s korekti.
>It=92s a matter of taste             Id eqa u subjekti de este.=

>Some people love this architecture Plura-pe fo amo u-ci tekto-mode.
>Woul=
d you like to see something else?   Qe, tu vo vide plu hetero-ra?
>I don=92=
t want to see anything else       Mi vo ne vide ali hetero-ra.
>I prefer st=
aying indoors           Mi prefere resta intra-do. 
>You=92re wrong. There =
are some remarkable things to see
        Tu habe ero. Il es plura not-abil=
i ra de vide.
>Well, I prefer to see them in the afternoon
        Klu-co, =
mi prefere de vide mu tem u po-meso-di.
>Let=92s go to a restaurant now    =
   Qe, nu na pote ki ad u sito-do?
>I=92m a little hungry                Mi=
 habe u pusi de fami.
>Take me to a caf=E9, please          Place, duce mi =
ad u kafe.
*After all that I need a drink.     Seqe holo-co, mi nece habe u=
 bibe.
>
**  I raise the red card.  When some associated words follow the m=
ain VERB
they are not always Modifiers.  They could be Verb Auxilliaries, a=
nd the
verbs they follow could be VERBOIDS, EG  ki tako; dice lento.
   Ref=
.  _Glosa 1000_ 1984.  These were a strong point of Interglossa, and
were i=
ntroduced into Glosa during the 1980s; but, when Ron saw how much
trouble p=
eople were having with the basics of an uninflected, syntax-based
grammar, =
he did not to persue them, and omitted reference to them in the
introductio=
n to the 1992 dictionary.
   In referring to Verboids and Auxilliaries eith=
er I am a dodo with too
long a memory, or a repository of wisdom, which is =
to be recalled when the
time is right.
>
***  Nick has certainly pointed to=
 the question of "cultural bias" here,
possibly unconsciously.  Do we belie=
ve that Glosa ought to be culturally
neutral as well as linguistically so?
=

  Speaking as an Australian, and as someone whose country is currently
bei=
ng 'culturally hegemonised' by the United States, I might have
over-reacted=
 to the American culture in Nick's English-language phrases!
            **=
*** ***** *****
  There is a phrase in Australia: 'American English'; it de=
scribes the
street-wise, "friend of the President," Seinfeld type of langua=
ge that
pervades our mass-media, and it is used as a derogatory term.
  I w=
ill fight hard to prevent the ''polite language'' of Glosa from
embodying t=
he same White-house/Political_correctness philosophy, ... and
also against =
Glosa's developing the flavour of 'American Glosa.'

  Sorry Nick: what I o=
bject to is the syrupy-sweet, false language of
polite, and often two-faced=
, society.  Associated with this, and often not
far below the surface of th=
is conventional language, is the co-ertion of
the gangster - or of the Pres=
ident.


