---
authorName: David
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;David&quot; &lt;daveyporter@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEEyRDA4QjI2QTYxOTQ2QzM5MkQ1NDIwODg2RERDRkMzQGRhdmlkPg==
headers.referencesHeader: PDIwMDkyODE2NTExMC40Njk3NTJATk9URUJPT0s+
layout: email
msgId: 1150
msgSnippet: Hello Peter, Yes Glosa is a great language - I also spent  time learning
  Esperanto some years ago but even allowing for the fact that I am one of those who
nextInTime: 1151
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1234372509'
prevInTime: 1149
prevInTopic: 1145
profile: ecclesonc
replyTo: LIST
senderId: dqMEhb6IIj2YFjySgucQ9ATNR9PEBdtAcydmoQCRs-Wudj2JGks9C12ZyjL2iL1bk1-4Nh05uwcb9RAK_gqPRlPKvnlNUYDh8Q
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Introducing myself'
topicId: 1138
userId: 335799855
---


  Hello Peter,
     Yes Glosa is a great language - I also spent  time learning Esperanto some years ago but even allowing for the fact that I am one of those who finds that learning a language is mighty difficult I thought I was doing ok - until I came across a book that made me think otherwise as I found it so difficult to read.
     In answer to your query - no there is no Committee (maybe Glosa enthusiasts will get together one day and "get organised").   I do correspond occasionally with Wendy Ashby who, together with Ron Clark, resurrected the language "Interglosa" "produced" by Lancelot Hogben during the 1940's - sadly Ron Clark died.   This was an awful blow to Wendy Ashby who was also faced with other problems.   Consequently the "drive" to promote Glosa has waned.   Wendy does still produced Plu Glosa Nota as and when she is able and I presume that back numbers are available.
  The 18 Steps can be ordered from her plus it is available on the inet but not in its entirety.   As the language has no grammar and the "rules" are uncomplicated it's really more a matter of learning words and stringing them together (as I see it).   If you have any thoughts on this I'd be interested to hear them.
     With regards,   David, Eccles on Sea, Norfolk, England
  Greetings all.

  Please forgive me for writing in English. I hope to be doing less and less of that from here on 
  out.

  I've been checking into constructed languages for some time, deciding which one I wanted to learn 
  (dare I say master), and I keep coming back to Glosa. I think it's main attraction is the flow of 
  its speech patterns, and it sounds more 'natural' than -- say -- Esperanto. I mean no disrespect to 
  Esperanto or any other conlang, by the way.

  What would you all recommend as the best way in to Glosa? And, other than this listserv, are there 
  Glosa communities on the web I might check out?

  Many many thanks
  Peter Schogol
  Lexington, KY
  USA

  [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


  

-- 
I am using the free version of SPAMfighter.
We are a community of 5.9 million users fighting spam.
SPAMfighter has removed 3453 of my spam emails to date.
Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len

The Professional version does not have this message


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


