---
authorName: justi.miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;justi.miller&quot; &lt;justi.miller@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMDkwODIxLjIxMTUxNi41MzgzLjY5NzI3QG1haWxwb3AwOC5kY2EudW50ZC5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1213
msgSnippet: Karo Glosa-pe-- I don t think that any attempt at an International Auxiliary
  Language will survive without strong organization.  I have had an idea-- obviously
nextInTime: 1214
nextInTopic: 1215
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1250913008'
prevInTime: 1212
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: vsHF8GoeTSQl3OSZ5HwFsfZ92txAKXsp9qeRH8wz8cTSluAbW0ncC_zQJkxJn_pTypzp_RE37h1AXfPrLPAhLfvCh8ljagIUU5dAq5w
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: New file
topicId: 1213
userId: 123051087
---

Karo Glosa-pe--

I don't think that any attempt at an International Auxiliary Language
will survive without strong organization.  I have had an idea-- obviously
not yet ready-- for an American Glosa Organization (AGO).

The problem with an Internet setup is this--  Computers don't volunteer
information.  People will never know about Glosa unless they specifically
Google it.  We need to get in their faces just a little, or they'll never
notice it.

I foresee an AGO that would be subject to Glosa headquarters in England,
have a newsletter, brochures, and campaigns to improve people's
vocabulary-- something Glosa is very good at.  This might even include
presentations in schools, taking apart some of the terms the students use
in science.  This would be a tax-free organization with president,
secretary, treasurer.  The organization would be there to respond to
questions, do public relations, promote Glosa, sell dictionaries, and
solicit.

I have downloaded a file to the Glosalist site, called ReadGlosa.rtf. 
Feel free to use it if you like and replace my address with your own.  It
fits on both sides of a sheet of paper (since it's an .rtf document, it
might need a little resizing to work on your printer) and can be handed
out to people to read, or left on a table somewhere for people to pick
up, or mailed.  No, I haven't used it much yet myself-- I'm still trying
to come up with some ideas.

Just a daydream of mine.

Saluta,
_ _
/.
/\   Gary
##
____________________________________________________________
Click here for great quotes from top international movers!
http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL2141/fc/BLSrjpTMAuRqNzsSfMq8LlWmXxGHWRtFYF0oA56Si6d8H0kx4CZ7bHlWiSc/

