---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDMwNzEwMDkxOTIwLjUwMjU4LnFtYWlsQHdlYjQxNjAyLm1haWwueWFob28uY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwNzE0MTExNzE3LjAwNzFjZmE0QHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwNzEwMTIxNDE4LjAwNzE0ZjBjQHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
layout: email
msgId: 122
msgSnippet: '... the IDO group. But have it your(s) way. Looks to me that you who
  know the language would write some very short human interest pieces in both english
  and'
nextInTime: 123
nextInTopic: 1590
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1058145437'
prevInTime: 121
prevInTopic: 120
profile: bliminus_107_ssaass
replyTo: LIST
senderId: AO8-w7fTzpDixGKXT03ShiUg34rwsa_bwjhii3WTB435BPm9kMq06NskkTci4zuEAJvChM07-b7BQp8uU1b3dWz1obUjEB5K81M9QOTBmsF2kNbGMA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Translation*'
topicId: 118
userId: 147970330
---

At 02:19 AM 7/10/03 -0700, John pa grafo:
>WARNING! It's this kind of discourse that ran me and a host of others from
the "IDO" group. But have it your(s) way. Looks to me that you who know the
language would write some very short human interest pieces in both english
and glosa so that we that or new to the language could start learning and
submit some short Glosa articles or at least a few sentence to the group.
Meanwhile, I like Glosa and am studying it some everyday.
> 
>John Braddock
>
Saluta a John e plu hetero neo-pe - speciali,
   Ja, na fu probabili uti Glosa iso id sembla gru pro singu mo de na.
   Qe, u-ci eqa u forti qalita alo u no-dina mo?
   Mi prefere grafo de qod mi vo dice, uti Glosa direkti.
   Seqe, po singu para-grafo, mi traduce mi Glosa in England-lingua.

[Greetings to John and the other newcomers, especially,
   Yes, we will probably use Glosa as it seems suitable for each one of us.
   Is this a strong quality or a weak one?
   I prefer to write about what I wish to say, using Glosa directly.
   Subsequently, after each paragraph, I translate my Glosa into English.]

   Mi pote grafo boni ge-forma English-lingua, sed kron mi muta u frasa ex
Glosa ad England-lingua, mi ne traduce in boni England-lingua, alterno, mi
tena plu mero de u Glosa struktura.  U-ci metodi habe u tende de monstro
plura de plu difere inter Glosa e England-lingua.
   Place komenta: qe, u-ci stilo auxi tu abili de puta uti Glosa?

  [I can write well-formed English, but when I change a/the sentence from
Glosa to English, I do not translate into good (colloquial) English,
instead, I hold onto parts of the Glosa structure.  This method is intended
to show several of the differences between Glosa and English.  
   Please comment: does this style help (with) your ability to think in
Glosa?]

   Plu autori-pe ne don a na u faski de plu gramatika regula.  Mu pa kredi
u sintaxi pa habe sufici simpli, de auto.  U dikursi inter Gary e mi
monstro a na: na nece habe plura ge-grafo regula - pro plu gene-sko-pe.
   To mo tem mi pa tenta grafo u tali faski de plu gramatika regula, e mi
pa loka mu intra mi reti-lo.  http://www.zeta.org.au/~rgaskell

  [The authors did not give us a set of grammatical rules.  They believed
the syntax was sufficiently simple, of itself.  The discussion between Gary
and me shows us (that) we need to have several written rules - for learners.
   At one time, I did try to write such a set of grammatical rules, and I
put them in my website.  (U.R.L. as above)]   

   Plu-ci regula pa gene ge-kolekti ex u praxi de Glosa intra plu jurnali,
exempla _Plu Glosa Nota_, e ex un uti de u lingua dia un Inter-reti.
   Mi kredi; il es u maxi boni mode de uti Glosa, e u-ci eqa un uti; qi
dona maxi komunika; e qi dona un este de u no-vid-abili lingua. Mi logi ke
u maxi boni lingua pro munda komunika es u-la lingua; qi loka u mini numera
de plu obstakula inter u dice-pe e un akusti-pe.

  [These rules were collected from the practice of Glosa in journals, e.g.
_Plu Glosa Nota_, and from use of the language through the Internet.
   I believe there is a best way of using Glosa, and this is the use, which
maximises communication, and which puts the least number of obstacles
between the speaker and the listener.]

   Ko dice-co, mi vo gene plu responde ex plu membra de u Glosalist
koncerne u komunika valu de mi uti de Glosa intra u-ci posta.
   Uti u-ci okasio te grafo tu plu prima frasa in Glosa.  Face tu responde
frasa ex u re-loka de plu verbi intra mi mesage; iso Ron Clark pa more
dice, "Sporta ko plu verbi."

  [With saying all that, I wish to get responses from the members of
Glosalist concerning the 'communication rating' of my use of Glosa in this
posting.
   Use this opportunity to write your first sentences in Glosa.  Make your
answering sentences from (by) the relocation of words in my message; as Ron
Clark used to say "Play with the words." 

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell



