---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDkxMjI0LjE2NDA0NS4zMjYwLjEuanVzdGkubWlsbGVyQGp1bm8uY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhoMmhobSs3czg2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1277
msgSnippet: Karo Sr. Miller Fo gluko pro tu memo de mi! Ex tu explika, mi este ma
  hedo;maxi de plu posi konfusi de Glosa; pa no-feno. Sed mi ski; in kanta, es panto
  lexi
nextInTime: 1278
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1261750646'
prevInTime: 1276
prevInTopic: 1276
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: KkdGfCHHGKHgfClytSHY_WDXCJGEx83Lo1E33VfsM7ofq2TPZqnMYVpnetBuCDJqwIBBykexRuSVFppfyUW_1vEHpmaQxVx299U
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Ge-nexu verba'
topicId: 1276
userId: 420932182
---

Karo Sr. Miller
Fo gluko pro tu memo de mi! Ex tu explika, mi este ma hedo;=
maxi de plu posi konfusi de Glosa; pa no-feno. Sed mi ski; in kanta, es pan=
to lexi homo "na plu stude-pe" e "na; plu stude-pe" qi es tro no-facili ge-=
audi u brevi-sto ";" in "na; plu stude-pe",plus u-la simi turba de "FE-bovi=
" e "fe BOvi".

I think a lot of words in the document of gid.pdf (Glosa In=
ter-reti Diktionari) should be abbreviated, and combined by some basic word=
s!

Ex:
mekani--->"meka" for short. Furthermore, "robot" could be replaced =
by "Meka-homi",which is quite easily memorized by all peoples, especially b=
y us Chinese, because the Chinese word for that is combined by the two word=
s!

vokabulari--->=A1=B0vokabu=A1=B1for short. Or better use "lexi-fa or ve=
rba-fa" for easy memorization. This word of Mondlango is just "wordaro" (wo=
rd(o)=3Dverba & verba; -ar(o)=3D-fa)

The two examples should be paid more =
attention to by us Glosalists for making Glosa more practical! We can learn=
 more useful and wise  concepts and ideas on word making and grammar of all=
 languages, among which, Chinese is the wisest and simplest! 

And, I feel =
quite strange on expressions of the weekday names.
Why "di-mo" =3D"Sunday",=
 in Chinese, we say literally "Weekday one" meaning "Monday" and "Weekday s=
ix" meaning "Saturday", but "Sun-weekday (Weekday seven)" means "Sunday". A=
s I remembered, Jesus's creating day 1 is Monday, right? 
Therefore, "di-mo=
" should be "Monday" and "u di mo" could be "the first" (of month). In that=
 way, the two same expressions " di-mo" (sounds [DImo]) and "u di mo"(di mo=
 sounds [udiMO] ).

Saluta!
Li Zhenyu


 






--- In glosalist@yahoogroup=
s.com, Gary R Miller <justi.miller@...> wrote:
>
> Karo Zhenyu--
> 
> Nice =
to hear from you again.  I was afraid you wouldn't be able to write
> after=
 your computers changed at work.
> 
> ->  Gluko te itera gene u grama ex tu=
.  Mi pa fobo; tu ne fu posi grafo,
> po tu plu puta-me topo ergo-lo pa gen=
e muta.
> 
> In English, Germanic, and other languages when words are combi=
ned, the
> stress is on the FIRST word.  This is, therefore, what one shoul=
d do in
> Glosa.
> 
> ->  In England, plu Germani e plu hetero lingua, kron=
 plu verba gene u
> nexu, plu forti-soni es de u PROTO verba.  Ka-co u-ci e=
s u ra, pe debi
> akti per Glosa.
> 
> Her cow =3D fe (u) bovi =3D soni:  f=
e BO-vi.  MA KLARI: U bovi de fe...  U
> bovi, fe habe (qi) 
> (Female) cow=
 =3D u fe-bovi =3D soni: FE-bo-vi.  MA KLARI:  U fe-speci bovi 
> Help her =
=3D auxi fe =3D soni: a-U-xi FE 
> (Female) helper =3D auxi-fe =3D soni: a-=
U-xi-fe 
> 
> The comma shows a pause in this case:
> 
> ->  U koma-sema mo=
nstra u pausa u-ci kaso:
> 
> Our students =3D na plu stude-pe
> We, the st=
udents =3D na, (PAUSA) plu stude-pe.  MA KLARI:  Na, qi es plu
> stude-pe 
=
> 
> Yes, these differences are very small.  99% of the time, the context w=
ill
> make the differences clear.  Even without the hyphens or word stress,=

> Glosa will usually be understandable.
> 
> ->  Ja, panto-ci difere es ve=
ri mikro.  Nona-nona pro-centi de tem, u
> kontextu (plu proxi verba) fu st=
i; plu difere es klari.  Klu minus plu
> hifen (mikro-line) e forti verba, =
Glosa fo-freqe es ge-logi.
> 
> _ _
> /.
> /\   Gary
> ##
> _______________=
_____________________________________________
> Senior Assisted Living
> Pu=
t your loved ones in good hands with quality senior assisted living. Click =
now!
> http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL2141/c?cp=3DPFY29Wos0_Kgesppgtjd=
vgAAJ1DcCzXl_3TfjnPX-G4hLylnAAYAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAADNAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAASUQA=
AAAA=3D
>



