---
authorName: paulceaston
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;paulceaston&quot; &lt;2003accounts@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGJmNDFpdis0YThnQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 129
msgSnippet: In the Internet age I find the recent discussion about how to purchase
  Glosa books strange.  There are so many ways in which selling the books from England
  to
nextInTime: 130
nextInTopic: 145
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1058376095'
prevInTime: 128
prevInTopic: 0
profile: paulceaston
replyTo: LIST
senderId: aBhRl5B4YEME8AVJBIbhrzTFxn0c1GfINbVevFzWJ9i8UFHudhdFkHyasTXEw6JNXzSqJU5EgFDJseE4DcO_UGwse_XCorwchf3FUNY
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Buying Glosa Books
topicId: 129
userId: 152952933
---

In the Internet age I find the recent discussion about how to 
purchase Glosa books strange.  There are so many ways in which 
selling the books from England to buyers in other contries could be 
accomplished without sending cash in the mail or paying exhorbinant 
bank fees for international money orders.

Two options, which I have personally used, are Paypal and Amazon 
Marketplace.

Paypal <http://www.paypal.com/> allows you to easily set up an 
account that will allow you to accept credit card payments.  It is 
used commonly by vendors at Ebay, for example, but is also an 
inexpensive way to establish secure on-line ordering from a personal 
Web-page.  Paypal makes money by taking a small commission from every 
sale, but for small businesses and personal use, it is well worth it.

Amazon's  vendor accounts work in a similar way.  Go to 
http://www.amazon.com/ and click on the "Sell Your Stuff" button near 
the top of the page.

Glosa's publisher should really set up an Amazon account to simplify 
and modernize the ordering process.  It is simple and cheap to do.  

If I thought that there was enough interest, I might consider buying 
Glosa materials in bulk and selling them through my Amazon account or 
on one of my Web pages at a mark-up sufficient to cover my costs, but 
I am hesitant to invest much money purchasing boxes of books if they 
are likely to gather dust in a closet.  

If there are any Glosa enthusiasts in New York City, perhaps we could 
discuss pooling funds to help distribute materials in the United 
States.  


