---
authorName: Gary R Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary R Miller &lt;justi.miller@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMTAwMTE1LjIzMzExNy4xMDY0LjAuanVzdGkubWlsbGVyQGp1bm8uY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1337
msgSnippet: 'Karo Myaleee e Zhenyu-- First the good news:  Myaleee, you remember the
  first poem you sent me, and I sent it to Wendy Ashby?  She likes it and would like
  to'
nextInTime: 1338
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1263619877'
prevInTime: 1334
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 2UvWEyPlcqPe01HHkZ21JdV_FhyHXYVWkSt8NVgiFZs9wjH9hbeVKkA5ZW97sNu72WiSaWL4moCeD92YDlq6jBFN7JeLGWV3nZMUDg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Poesi e muta
topicId: 1337
userId: 123051087
---

Karo Myaleee e Zhenyu--

First the good news:  Myaleee, you remember the first poem you sent me,
and I sent it to Wendy Ashby?  She likes it and would like to print it in
the next newsletter (PLU GLOSA NOTA numera 96).

->  Proto, u boni nova:  Myaleee, qe tu memo u proto poesi, tu pa bali a
mi, po-co mi bali id a Wendy Ashby?  Fe amo id, e volu tipo id in u seqe
nova-grama (PLU GLOSA NOTA numera 96).

About the changes:  Both of you can continue to use your changes here. 
Anyone else who wants to use them can use them.

-> De plu muta:  Bi vi pote du uti vi muta ci.  Plu hetero pe, qi volu
uti mu, pote uti mu.

You two want a language like this:

->  Bi vi volu tali lingua:

 1 + 1 = 2

I want a language like this:

->  Mi volu tali lingua:

 1 + 1 = 2 or 3 or 4....  It depends on how many children 1 and 1 have.

 1 + 1 = 2 alo 3 alo 4....  Pende de u qantita de infanti, 1 e 1 gene.

But consider this:  You two (2) want to change Glosa.  There are 131
people in GlosaList.  I believe there are about 100 people who receive
the Glosa newsletter.  I don't know how many Glosists don't have the
Internet.  There are several Glosa books.  There is one Glosa Center in
England and one in Africa.  Some of these people have known Glosa for
many years.  Should we change all this because because two people who
have been studying Glosa for one month think their idea is better?

->  Anti-co, puta de u-ci:  Bi (2) vi volu muta Glosa.  Es 131 homi topo
GlosaList.  Mi doxo; es cirka 100 homi, qi gene u Glosa nova-grama.  Mi
habe zero ski; qo qantita de Glosa-pe ne habe un inter-reti.  Es oligo
bibli de Glosa.  Es u Glosa Centra topo England e u Glosa Centra topo
Afrika.  U qantita de panto-ci homi ski Glosa tem poli anua.  Qe na debi
muta panto u-ci, ka bi homi, qi pa gene ski de Glosa ante mono meno, doxo
mu idea es ma boni?

I appeal to your understanding and wisdom.  Is this the way to help an
International Auxiliary Language?  If you have seen the Glosa symbol, you
should know it stands for an open mind.  But changes will also take time
and a democratic process and a careful consideration of the ideas of
those who created Glosa.

->  Mi petitio a vi logi e sofi.  Qe u-ci es u mode de auxi un Internatio
Auxi Lingua?  Si vi pa vide un insigni de Glosa, vi debi ski; id habe u
sema de u cepti menta.  Anti-co plu muta nece plus u qantita de tem e u
demo-krati mode e u kura puta de plu idea de mu, qi pa krea Glosa.

I will use the Glosa the majority of Glosists use.  I believe this Glosa
still gives many people the opportunity to experiment and develop their
own style of Glosa.  An IAL should be about people first and logic
second-- and that is logical!

->  Mi fu uti u Glosa, u maxi mega mero de Glosa-pe uti.  Mi doxo; u-ci
Glosa du dona a poli homi un okasio de experimenta e de evolve mu auto
mode de Glosa.  Un IAL debi es de poli homi ad ordina mono e logika ad
ordina bi-- e u-ci habe logika!

Saluta,
_ _
/.
/\   Gary
##
____________________________________________________________
Weight Loss Program
Best Weight Loss Program - Click Here!
http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL2141/c?cp=klJ6tBTx93kh2guTGjKvIgAAJ1DcCzXl_3TfjnPX-G4hLylnAAYAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAADNAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAEUgAAAAA=

