---
authorName: topdeboo
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;topdeboo&quot; &lt;topdeboo@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDc3N0JFQjk0QTU5QjQwMjA4MUJCMTZEOTE1M0I4RUMxQGRhdmlkPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhwZnJydCt0YmdoQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1395
msgSnippet: Hello David, Thank you for your kind invitation into the land of Glosa.
  This IAL has attracted me because it looks quite different from Esperanto, and I
  m
nextInTime: 1396
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1270575805'
prevInTime: 1394
prevInTopic: 1393
profile: topdeboo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 0EhvZ3ar9m1NBIfkANQYMPNkBgh9AP81LAwSe5JcSLatE27Rxxk3lPuvcO5j5bHm4gARhRmh7TzunqEF1iaIIN8jRlw3lw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: true
title: 'Re: Ave Oleg'
topicId: 1393
userId: 441202924
---






Hello David,
Thank you for your kind invitation into the land of Glosa=
. This IAL has attracted me because it looks quite different from Esperanto=
, and I'm willing to try out some other approach to language-making than th=
at of Zamenhof. I'll see if I am able to express my thoughts in Glosa with =
the same ease as in Esperanto. I can't say I'm too good at languages myself=
, Esperanto I've been learning for quite a long time. I hope, however, I'll=
 be able to answer you in Glosa someday. I know that Norvich is famous for =
its terriers, they are extremely funny reddish-coloured fox-like little dog=
gies, I like them very much. I've just looked into the dictionary GID, and =
found out that the Glosa word for "terrier" is "pusi speci kani." Rather a =
descriptive definition. :-) 
  
Best wishes
Oleg

--- In glosalist@yahoogro=
ups.com, "David" <daveyporter@...> wrote:
>
> Hello Oleg - welcome to Glosa=
 - I see that your queries have been answered by Zhenyu so will make no fur=
ther comment.   My name is David - I live on the east coast of England abou=
t 32 kilometres from Norwich.   I also was interested in Esperanto but that=
 was a good few years ago and when I discovered Glosa (derived from InterGl=
ossa) I thought it to be a much better proposition for an international lan=
guage.   Regrettably I am not so good at learning languages but have the sa=
me ambition as yourself with regard to the introduction of an international=
 language.
>    Regards,    David. 
> 
> --
> I am using the free version o=
f SPAMfighter.
> We are a community of 7 million users fighting spam.
> SPA=
Mfighter has removed 4778 of my spam emails to date.
> Get the free SPAMfig=
hter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len
> 
> The Professional version doe=
s not have this message
> 
> 
> [Non-text portions of this message have bee=
n removed]
>



