---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGhwZnF1MytlMHR0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhwaGlucCs1NnY5QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1399
msgSnippet: Dear Oleg, Please see my new topic outside here! Also, as I said here
  before, the 6 Glosa audio samples seem not too accurate, especially the Turisti
  Ofici
nextInTime: 1402
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1270631993'
prevInTime: 1397
prevInTopic: 1396
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: c2Bc-WRx0up_oo9AJd6q-CUL_EzZz8HCqUqfQSxsrownWwNLfrKBA_iYayeXrWFGDHUmNpNtIKg19KQSs0T7S2A6ZPDt4jxby9A
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Hello, estimataj Glosa-lingvanoj!'
topicId: 1391
userId: 420932182
---

Dear Oleg,
Please see my new topic outside here! Also, as I said here befor=
e, the 6 Glosa audio samples seem not too accurate, especially the "Turisti=
 Ofici" by Ron and Wendy, but which is with the most natural and beautiful =
melody to the other 5.Probably, "Turisti Ofici" was recorded in the early t=
ime of Glosa, some pronunciation was not confirmed or interrupted by Interg=
lossa. In its text, for exp: "museu" was pronounced "muzea" strangely, "cen=
tra" heard like "tientra" oddly, the ending A's were light and small like t=
he sound "a" in "china". why "-s-" was prounced as "-z-"? The small lipped =
"o" and "e" were too weak to distinguish from "u" and "i" by hearing.
Above=
 all, I think my noted pronunciation to you would be clearer than the audio=
 samples.
Saluta!
Li Zhenyu   

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "topdeboo=
" <topdeboo@...> wrote:
>
> 
> 
> Hello, Li Zhenyu,
> Thanks you very much =
for your explanations, they proved to be very useful. Besides, I've found s=
ome sample mp3 files at glosa.org. Not 
> too many, but they help a lot. On=
 listening to them, however, I've got some more questions. The "18 Steps" g=
ives to the learners the following rules: "Accent gently on vowel before la=
st consonant" and "Pronounce vowels separately". Now, one of the readers pr=
onounces the word auxi as ['auksi]; but the last consonant is "x", so why n=
ot [a'uksi]? 
> 
> These are some more examples from the same source where =
the readers don't follow the above mentioned rules: laevo is pronounced as =
['l^evo], musea as [mu'se^], magika-fe as ['m^gik^ 'fe. Why not [l^'evo], [=
'muse^] and [m^'gik^ 'fe]? 
> 
> Meticulously yours,
> Oleg :-)
>



