---
authorName: myaleee nimah
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: myaleee nimah &lt;myaleee@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGhwa2p0OStzbGZ2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQ0MTE0LjQ2MjM0LnFtQHdlYjExMTQxMS5tYWlsLmdxMS55YWhvby5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: PGhwa2p0OStzbGZ2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1408
msgSnippet: 'dear lizhenyu_god your opinions are illuminating and interesting! I like
  also LFN(read about it in wikipedia): its words are always natural (from romance'
nextInTime: 1409
nextInTopic: 1409
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1270758925'
prevInTime: 1407
prevInTopic: 1407
profile: myaleee
replyTo: LIST
senderId: iarM-m-cjGohYy4na3Lbr8jpiFMfRbhIEerP3BPGsbK6rG3Zl1Z9O1xjQTIkYatFeBKADasZK2_UHmEdx3Y54JIb7yg_NfCt
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Glosa&#39;s Improvement and Progress (An Answer to Oleg)(Revised
  thrice!) :('
topicId: 1404
userId: 288947930
---

dear lizhenyu_god

your opinions are illuminating and interesting!
I like a=
lso LFN(read about it in wikipedia): its words are always natural (from rom=
ance languages), grammar is the simplest I have seen, very clear to read an=
d write. Anyone can suggest changes (Mr Boeree the creator, is there to dis=
cuss changes)! It is user-generated, like wikipedia, youtube!

saluta

:-)
=

Myaleee




________________________________
From: Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@ho=
tmail.com>
To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Thu, April 8, 2010 5:58:17 A=
M
Subject: [glosalist] Re: Glosa's Improvement and Progress (An Answer to O=
leg)(Revised thrice!) :(

  
Dear Oleg,
Firstly about me,Haha! regrettably =
I'm not a lawyer! However, I want to be a lawyer, judge, especially improve=
r for Auxlangs! Haha! All those roles are finally for the only easiest and =
most exact perfect communication. In my mind, Glosa and Mondlango are more =
advanced than other ones, but which both need to be furthermore improved in=
 a contrary way. Glosa needs some improvement for even more exact expressio=
n by changing the old mechanics into the new ones(as I proposed before). Mo=
ndlango needs to reduce some unnessary and irregular forms, Exp: "mias, yia=
s, hias, xias, jias, lias, muas, yuas, huas, xuas, juas, luas, sias; kius, =
tius, ius, and nius" should be regularly replaced by "mio, yio, hio, xio, j=
io, lio, muo, yuo, huo, xuo, juo, luo, sio, kiuo( Adj.=3Dkiua), tiuo( Adj.=
=3Dtiua), iuo( Adj.=3Diua), and niuo( Adj.=3Dniua) ("-s" forever for "plura=
l". kius=3Dplural of "kiu", tius=3Dplural of "tiu", etc.).

Haha! Funny! No=
? Maybe I should put my words on Mondlango at the Mondlango's forum, but no=
t here! :D 

Mr. Miller is right on his discription of Esperanto trying to =
be "Exact"and Glosa "the Fastest". My own opinions are as follows:

Esperan=
to's word order can be changeable maximally as speakers wish, just by havin=
g a complex grammar which is a must for that to show every word its own gra=
matical function. People have to pay much attention to every complex word's=
 form, which really makes too much touble in speaking and writing (Maybe al=
so hard in hearing, I haven't tried before!). For me, I hate to afford its =
complication, even it's exact enough in expression! 

Glosa's word order, c=
ontrarily to Esperanto, is stable, therefore it's grammar can be simple and=
 without parts of speech. In most of the situations it can clearly show eve=
ry word's invisible part of speech--the grammar function, but still has sev=
eral leaks or loopholes(unclear expressing ways) as I indicated before. For=
 me, Glosa's really simple in speaking and writing, but occasionally some s=
ituations make me puzzled in hearing and reading! I still think Glosa has a=
 greatest prospect! (My proposals given as per the Glosa's own way, theoret=
ically should be acceptable for making itself even more exact in expression=
. )

Mondlango (including other Esperanto's offsprings) is just between Glo=
sa and Esperanto, quite near Esperanto in grammar but too far from the word=
 sourcing of Esperanto and the clever words-compounding of Glosa, as it's q=
uite pro-English so that some call it the Fake English. I think Mondlango c=
an learn even more from Closa in words-compounding. Exp:aktwordo=3D verbo(a=
ction- word,verb) ,kwalitwordo/ deskribwordo=3D adjekto(quality- word,descr=
iption -word, adjective), yerdeko=3Ddekado( year-ten, decade) {derives from=
 "yercento=3Dcentury, yermilo=3Dmillenium" } mon-dekuno/mon- 11=3Dnovembro(=
 november) {Numerals after nouns for distinguishment from "dek/cent/mil yer=
o(s)"--(ten, hundred,thousand years),yercento was centyero in the early tim=
e of MDL}, maxinhumo=3Droboto( machine-man, robot),langjuro=3D gramatiko( l=
anguage- legal,grammer) .In the end, basically the current Mondlango has no=
 confusion and also is easier in grammar, but with a lot of English-like wo=
rds which need
 people to memorize purely. Mondlango will continually go gr=
eater after it gets more improvement like I proposed above!

There is anoth=
er type of auxlang named Lojban, literally "Logical Language", which is qui=
te fresh and different to the pro-native ones like Glosa, Mondlango, Mondla=
ngo, etc. in grammar and words. I just began studying it and hard to tell w=
hether it's good or not, however it has given me some puzzles at the beginn=
ing in its words and grammar.

Finally, as I said at the beginning, Glosa a=
nd Mondlango are the two best auxlangs currently.

Saluta!
Li Zhenyu 


---=
 In glosalist@yahoogrou ps.com, "topdeboo" <topdeboo@.. .> wrote:
>
> 
> 
>=
 Hello, Li Zhenyu,
> 
> Thanks a lot for your clever and detailed explanati=
ons of the way the Glosa words are pronounced in those sample files from gl=
osa.org. Are you not a lawyer, by the way? :-) 
> 
> > Sometimes, just like=
 what happens to many languages usually, people
> > don't follow the rules =
of the common or unpassionate standard 
> > stress which means the stress w=
ouldn't be on where it ought to as 
> > in dictionaries but on the passiona=
te syllable that people want to
> > as their mood.
> 
> You've persuaded me=
 completely that the readers must have made those shifts of the stressed vo=
wels in the heat of passion, which provides them with the most convincing e=
xcuse. As for myself, I'm rather an impassive person, so I'll always try to=
 observe the regulations given in the official guide; judging by your remar=
ks, I understand them correctly.
> 
> I've read your other posts of today, =
they are all very interesting. I wish I had knowledge of Glosa enough to as=
sess your proposals. I can only say that at the Russian forum about Esperan=
to where I heard of Glosa for the first time one of the members gave an exa=
mple of the indistinguishable (by ear) words "an bovi" (his ox) and "an-bov=
i" (male ox) as a proof of the insufficient accuracy of Glosa. For now, I w=
onder if Glosa grammar allows to translate two of your examples (from your =
another post) in this manner (to convey the meaning more precisely): 
> his=
 or her friends =3D plu ami de an alo de fe
> he or her friends =3D an alo =
plu ami de fe.
> 
> Best regards,
> Oleg
>


 


      

[Non-text portions=
 of this message have been removed]


