---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA1MTAxMjA5MzIzOS4wMmVlMmQzMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhxMWpwYytrMmhAZUdyb3Vwcy5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1419
msgSnippet: Plu-ci grafo es forti GRANDI INTER-DICE pro LOGI-PE e NO-LOGI-PE de u
  LOGIKA de GLOSA! Ex John plu proto lexi, na pote detekti qo-ka Glosa ne pa es ge-acepta
nextInTime: 1420
nextInTopic: 1420
numMessagesInTopic: 11
postDate: '1271157356'
prevInTime: 1418
prevInTopic: 598
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: er6irMH4lq-REoH2RpCToo0H9XEjC70i74Ccom4wQNyHDvaqcwANC9kM9bP9GQ7AfQnr2rgM9dYhjYWpqjxTWBGmb9Lh6hpP7n8
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'GRANDI INTER-DICE pro LOGI de GLOSA(Re: jhnavis@yahoo.co.uk)'
topicId: 589
userId: 420932182
---

Plu-ci grafo es forti GRANDI INTER-DICE pro LOGI-PE e NO-LOGI-PE de u LOGIK=
A de GLOSA! 

Ex John plu proto lexi, na pote detekti qo-ka Glosa ne pa es =
ge-acepta ex plu-la pe qi pa habitu un inflexi grama. Po-co, ex Robin un ex=
plika, na detekti qo-ka es u boni e korekti mode de ski de u logika de Glos=
a. Mu inter-dice es forti profunda e detaila;de u klavi-logika de Glosa! 

=
Mi pa retro-vide plura pa-grafo de ci. Fo interese, mi pote detekti ma info=
 de profunda-libela diskusi de Glosa e plu hetero lingua.

Glosa es u holo-=
neo koncepti lingua! Na ne pote skope id per na paleo vista-punktu de infle=
xi lingua-lega(gramatika) homo plu Euro-lingua more habe. U munda ne pote n=
e habe Glosa qi es reali lingua ge-designa akorda un auto de menta e koncep=
ti! 

Pro Mondlango, id es u ple gramatika de habe absoluti sati ra pro sin=
gu lexi-morfo iso "-o(-os),-a,-i(-an,-in,-on,-ant-,-int-,-ont-,-at-,-it-,-o=
t-,-uz,-ez),-e,ect." u traditio Euro-lingua koncepti. 

Saluta!
Li Zhenyu

=



--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Robin Fairbridge Gaskell <drought-brea=
ker@...> wrote:
>
> At 11:23 PM 10/9/05, John Avis pa grafo:
> 
> >--- Robi=
n Fairbridge Gaskell  wrote:
> >---------------------------------
> >At 09:=
09 PM 10/4/05, John Avis pa grafo:
> > >Mi ne es glosa-pe, sed glosa intere=
se mi.
> > >
> > >I write this as an outsider, but I think Glosa could
> > =
>have great potential.
> >* So far so good.      **A nu fo boni.
> >
> >---=
-------------------------------
>      Much omitted.
> 
>    Saluta holo-pe=
, e speciali John,
> >
> >---------------------------------
> >
> >Thank yo=
u, Robin, for your explanation.
> >
> >
> >My first thoughts were that the =
two sentences meant
> >what you said and that panto cina ami were agreeing
=
> >with the criticism in the first sentence.
> >
> >It was not the "verb cl=
uster" that threw me - what
> >threw me was that I could not believe that p=
anto cina
> >ami could not recognise Chinese syntax in Glosa !
> >This made=
 me question whether I was translating
> >correctly.
> *  A perfect example=
 of the imperfectness of language for communication.
> 
>     Even from thi=
s, I am not sure if you are revising your first 
> interpretation of
> thes=
e two Glosa sentences and possibly misreading the second to
> understand th=
at Chinese people had trouble accepting that a weird languge
> like Glosa c=
ould be so close to their Chinese language in its syntax, or
> that you tho=
ught the sentence implied an opposite meaning, i.e. that
> Chinese people c=
ould not perceive that the syntaxes of Chinese language
> and Glosa were al=
most parallel.
>      What should have been said - and not just implied - i=
n the original Glosa
> statement, is that through lengthy processes of ling=
uistic evolution, both
> Chinese and English have dropped out most of their=
 
> inflections.  Thus, they have
> shown a form of convergent evolution in=
 that they have both come to rely
> on syntax for the sense of their senten=
ces ... very notably, from East
> and West, the resulting syntax - regardle=
ss of the forms of the two
> languages - is very similar.
>      Pushing th=
e argument to an unprovable level, we might conclude that
> syntax is reall=
y the language element that is hard-wired into our brains, and
> that the s=
peakers of both of these languages have 'intuitively' 
> discovered this
> =
primacy of syntax.
> 
> >I suppose the answer is that while Glosa is simila=
r to
> >Chinese and English, it not Chinese nor English.
> *  This is somet=
hing that some people find hard to accept.  In fact, Glosa
> is a language =
in its own right, and there are expressions that can be more
> elegant in G=
losa than they would be in English.  Simply because the authors
> of Glosa =
are English speakers, some critics see the similarities between
> the two l=
anguages as a function of author First Language.
>      On standing back, I=
 tend to see the fact that Ron and Wendy spoke a
> language, that had becom=
e streamlined through the loss of inflections, as a
> catalyst for the synt=
hesis of Glosa: pushing language to the full extent of
> this dimension  - =
where there was no other grammar than syntax.
> 
> >I do not consider mysel=
f a glosa-pe as I have made no
> >attempt to learn Glosa, but with a rough =
idea of its
> >syntax I have been reading it and, as I said, most of
> >the=
 time I can read it easily.
> *  John you can be described as a casual read=
er of Glosa.  How many other
> languages can be picked up, without tuition,=
 by the casual reader?
>     While Ron Clark went out of his way to avoid g=
iving a grammatical
> prescription for Glosa, the Linguists demand it!  Ron=
 wanted to avoid the
> confusions of a pedantically imposed book of grammat=
ical rules.  History
> might show this to have been a mistake.  I did try s=
ubsequently, to explain
> the grammar of Glosa, and this is on the web some=
where.
>     However, what Ron should definitely have done was to research =
the rules
> of syntax; and, most people do not recognise that syntax does h=
ave rules.
> So, good syntax - good word order - is what gives English its =
rhythm,
> flow and meaning.  Glosa is the same, only moreso.  While Chinese=
 people
> sometimes do not know what to do with the "-ing" inflection, and =
so add it
> to almost everything, with Glosa, this conundrum is removed.  B=
ut, for people
> whose first languages rely heavily on inflection, asking t=
hem to use Glosa can
> be akin to removing the crutch from a cripple.
>    =
 All in all, Glosa looks like being the Planned Language most likely to be
=
> readily readable by the largest proportion of the human population.  Writ=
ing
> Glosa, on the other hand takes a little skill, and also some precisio=
n of mind.
> 
> >You have left me wondering whether I should make some
> >s=
erious effort to learn it !
> *  Know that it exists, acknowledge that it i=
s at the other end of 
> the language
> spectrum to languages which are ver=
y highly inflected; then, consider
> not translating, but 'retelling' a wel=
l-known story in Glosa.
>     When you catch yourself thinking in Glosa, ra=
ther than thinking 
> in English,
> and and then translating it, you will k=
now you are using Glosa effectively.
>     When I use two language writing =
- Engilsh and Glosa - I always write the
> Glosa first: for me, it is fatal=
 to write the English first, then try to find
> translations into Glosa for=
 my vernacular English.
>     You could be in for a pleasant shock.  I was =
when I explored "Cinderella"
> in Glosa: my imagination took off, resulting=
 in a much more intriguing, and
> believable, ~Cinerala~.
> 
> Habe u boni =
di.
> 
> Robin Gaskell
>



