---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGhxMWpwYytrMmhAZUdyb3Vwcy5jb20+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhxMWs2MytwYmVxQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1420
msgSnippet: inflexi grama a pre-nu posta es ero, sed es inflexi gramatika
nextInTime: 1421
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 11
postDate: '1271157763'
prevInTime: 1419
prevInTopic: 1419
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: zoXWG7Hm3Rd_vp3Hwwgiib0A_l49omLyri94LfaAc8Ue2CZ0FLmotQQUe1Iuhyfsg9z8Qx1Wec9ofkp6QzMhw4QDfoM4ot3yJg8
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'GRANDI INTER-DICE pro LOGI de GLOSA(Re: jhnavis@yahoo.co.uk)'
topicId: 589
userId: 420932182
---

"inflexi grama" a pre-nu posta es ero, sed es "inflexi gramatika" 

--- In =
glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Zhenyu" <lizhenyu_god@...> wrote:
>
> Plu-ci gr=
afo es forti GRANDI INTER-DICE pro LOGI-PE e NO-LOGI-PE de u LOGIKA de GLOS=
A! 
> 
> Ex John plu proto lexi, na pote detekti qo-ka Glosa ne pa es ge-ac=
epta ex plu-la pe qi pa habitu un inflexi gramatika. Po-co, ex Robin un exp=
lika, na detekti qo-ka es u boni e korekti mode de ski de u logika de Glosa=
. Mu inter-dice es forti profunda e detaila;de u klavi-logika de Glosa! 
> =

> Mi pa retro-vide plura pa-grafo de ci. Fo interese, mi pote detekti ma i=
nfo de profunda-libela diskusi de Glosa e plu hetero lingua.
> 
> Glosa es =
u holo-neo koncepti lingua! Na ne pote skope id per na paleo vista-punktu d=
e inflexi lingua-lega(gramatika) homo plu Euro-lingua more habe. U munda ne=
 pote ne habe Glosa qi es reali lingua ge-designa akorda un auto de menta e=
 koncepti! 
> 
> Pro Mondlango, id es u ple gramatika de habe absoluti sati=
 ra pro singu lexi-morfo iso "-o(-os),-a,-i(-an,-in,-on,-ant-,-int-,-ont-,-=
at-,-it-,-ot-,-uz,-ez),-e,ect." u traditio Euro-lingua koncepti. 
> 
> Salu=
ta!
> Li Zhenyu
> 
> 
> 
> 
> --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Robin Fairb=
ridge Gaskell <drought-breaker@> wrote:
> >
> > At 11:23 PM 10/9/05, John A=
vis pa grafo:
> > 
> > >--- Robin Fairbridge Gaskell  wrote:
> > >---------=
------------------------
> > >At 09:09 PM 10/4/05, John Avis pa grafo:
> > =
> >Mi ne es glosa-pe, sed glosa interese mi.
> > > >
> > > >I write this as=
 an outsider, but I think Glosa could
> > > >have great potential.
> > >* S=
o far so good.      **A nu fo boni.
> > >
> > >----------------------------=
------
> >      Much omitted.
> > 
> >    Saluta holo-pe, e speciali John,
=
> > >
> > >---------------------------------
> > >
> > >Thank you, Robin, f=
or your explanation.
> > >
> > >
> > >My first thoughts were that the two s=
entences meant
> > >what you said and that panto cina ami were agreeing
> >=
 >with the criticism in the first sentence.
> > >
> > >It was not the "verb=
 cluster" that threw me - what
> > >threw me was that I could not believe t=
hat panto cina
> > >ami could not recognise Chinese syntax in Glosa !
> > >=
This made me question whether I was translating
> > >correctly.
> > *  A pe=
rfect example of the imperfectness of language for communication.
> > 
> > =
    Even from this, I am not sure if you are revising your first 
> > inter=
pretation of
> > these two Glosa sentences and possibly misreading the seco=
nd to
> > understand that Chinese people had trouble accepting that a weird=
 languge
> > like Glosa could be so close to their Chinese language in its =
syntax, or
> > that you thought the sentence implied an opposite meaning, i=
.e. that
> > Chinese people could not perceive that the syntaxes of Chinese=
 language
> > and Glosa were almost parallel.
> >      What should have bee=
n said - and not just implied - in the original Glosa
> > statement, is tha=
t through lengthy processes of linguistic evolution, both
> > Chinese and E=
nglish have dropped out most of their 
> > inflections.  Thus, they have
> =
> shown a form of convergent evolution in that they have both come to rely
=
> > on syntax for the sense of their sentences ... very notably, from East
=
> > and West, the resulting syntax - regardless of the forms of the two
> >=
 languages - is very similar.
> >      Pushing the argument to an unprovabl=
e level, we might conclude that
> > syntax is really the language element t=
hat is hard-wired into our brains, and
> > that the speakers of both of the=
se languages have 'intuitively' 
> > discovered this
> > primacy of syntax.=

> > 
> > >I suppose the answer is that while Glosa is similar to
> > >Chin=
ese and English, it not Chinese nor English.
> > *  This is something that =
some people find hard to accept.  In fact, Glosa
> > is a language in its o=
wn right, and there are expressions that can be more
> > elegant in Glosa t=
han they would be in English.  Simply because the authors
> > of Glosa are =
English speakers, some critics see the similarities between
> > the two lan=
guages as a function of author First Language.
> >      On standing back, I=
 tend to see the fact that Ron and Wendy spoke a
> > language, that had bec=
ome streamlined through the loss of inflections, as a
> > catalyst for the =
synthesis of Glosa: pushing language to the full extent of
> > this dimensi=
on  - where there was no other grammar than syntax.
> > 
> > >I do not cons=
ider myself a glosa-pe as I have made no
> > >attempt to learn Glosa, but w=
ith a rough idea of its
> > >syntax I have been reading it and, as I said, =
most of
> > >the time I can read it easily.
> > *  John you can be describe=
d as a casual reader of Glosa.  How many other
> > languages can be picked =
up, without tuition, by the casual reader?
> >     While Ron Clark went out=
 of his way to avoid giving a grammatical
> > prescription for Glosa, the L=
inguists demand it!  Ron wanted to avoid the
> > confusions of a pedantical=
ly imposed book of grammatical rules.  History
> > might show this to have =
been a mistake.  I did try subsequently, to explain
> > the grammar of Glos=
a, and this is on the web somewhere.
> >     However, what Ron should defin=
itely have done was to research the rules
> > of syntax; and, most people d=
o not recognise that syntax does have rules.
> > So, good syntax - good wor=
d order - is what gives English its rhythm,
> > flow and meaning.  Glosa is=
 the same, only moreso.  While Chinese people
> > sometimes do not know wha=
t to do with the "-ing" inflection, and so add it
> > to almost everything,=
 with Glosa, this conundrum is removed.  But, for people
> > whose first la=
nguages rely heavily on inflection, asking them to use Glosa can
> > be aki=
n to removing the crutch from a cripple.
> >     All in all, Glosa looks li=
ke being the Planned Language most likely to be
> > readily readable by the=
 largest proportion of the human population.  Writing
> > Glosa, on the oth=
er hand takes a little skill, and also some precision of mind.
> > 
> > >Yo=
u have left me wondering whether I should make some
> > >serious effort to =
learn it !
> > *  Know that it exists, acknowledge that it is at the other =
end of 
> > the language
> > spectrum to languages which are very highly in=
flected; then, consider
> > not translating, but 'retelling' a well-known s=
tory in Glosa.
> >     When you catch yourself thinking in Glosa, rather th=
an thinking 
> > in English,
> > and and then translating it, you will know=
 you are using Glosa effectively.
> >     When I use two language writing -=
 Engilsh and Glosa - I always write the
> > Glosa first: for me, it is fata=
l to write the English first, then try to find
> > translations into Glosa =
for my vernacular English.
> >     You could be in for a pleasant shock.  I=
 was when I explored "Cinderella"
> > in Glosa: my imagination took off, re=
sulting in a much more intriguing, and
> > believable, ~Cinerala~.
> > 
> >=
 Habe u boni di.
> > 
> > Robin Gaskell
> >
>



