---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGczNjNrZCtpNGx1QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhxMW5jMis1MDgzQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1421
msgSnippet: Ci, in pa-tem, es poli interese sti-ma-boni sugesti pro Glosa!
nextInTime: 1422
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1271161026'
prevInTime: 1420
prevInTopic: 1041
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 4y1clx9-7BRc8eumQ-JtFyS72J5PRObNOw9Vd1zz1hwYzqaUCfDpWNoL6pHaOQDuPaNE5FENpz40bYJX0sOuwukMp8tvYfTAAp4
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Better grammar discussion'
topicId: 1035
userId: 420932182
---

Ci, in pa-tem, es poli interese sti-ma-boni sugesti pro Glosa! 

--- In glo=
salist@yahoogroups.com, "patbe91" <patbe91@...> wrote:
>
> Hello! 
> 
> I a=
m new to glosa and I am strongly convinced by the basic idea of 
> concept-=
words, the affixes and much more. 
> 
> I have read the 'seminar1' problems=
. I still think that no language 
> should be misused by trying to translat=
e word by word and see if it 
> works. Any language has its own way of expr=
ession and trying to copy 
> a european-language sentence directly into glo=
sa is likely to fail.
> 
> Nevertheless, I have had quite some problems und=
erstanding glosa 
> sentences. And although writing in glosa might look eas=
y at first 
> sight, I think it is in fact difficult to avoid ambiguities. =
This 
> has already been discussed here before, and I think the fact that 
=
> most conversation here takes place in English is hinting at this 
> probl=
em. In my opinion Daniel Macouin has some good ideas to improve 
> the lang=
uage, however, as he remarks, 'heavy' ones. Perhaps some 
> more English 'b=
enchmark sentences' are needed which would be 
> translated into standard g=
losa and variants like pan-glosa, as a 
> basis for discussing precision an=
d elegance.
> 
> I like Daniel Macouin's ideas but also propose here anothe=
r solution 
> for one of the problems. 
> 
> 
> My example sentence is:
> 
=
> U paleo kali avi kanta...
> 
> Does the above mean: "The old beautiful bi=
rd sings..." or "The old, 
> beautiful bird-tune..." or "The Old sings beau=
tiful bird-tunes..." 
> is not immediately obvious, it is hidden in the sem=
antics. We need 
> to mark the noun. In fact glosa already has noun-markers=
. The U is 
> marking the noun, however I really do not understand why it i=
s not 
> placed next to the noun, like:
> 
> Paleo kali u avi kanta.
> 
> T=
his would immediately signal to the reader that kanta is NOT the 
> noun, b=
ut avi is. This way, the U would serve two goals, to signal 
> number and S=
ubject of the sentence. Did I miss any reason for 
> placing the "U" at the=
 beginning of the sentence, except for being 
> similar to English? 
> 
> 
=
> This was my simple suggestion. But nevertheless, Pan-Glosa has 
> better =
changes to offer. 
> 
> The "ge" to mark 'verbs of state' =3D adjectives is=
 a very nice thing. 
> We still think too much in the categories of europea=
n grammar, I 
> think.
> 
> In fact, when we say in glosa
> 
> "U avi habe =
(u) ponde", "U avi es ponde" and "U avi ponde"; A bird 
> has a weight, a b=
ird is heavy, a bird weighs...
> 
> In all three cases we mean that "a bird=
 has the property of weight". 
> All other differences are differences of E=
uropean grammatical 
> categories. And because of this, some English people=
 try to avoid 
> the word "be". A bird is not a weight! It is ambiguous and=
 not very 
> elegant. 
> 
> So I do not like the "es" very much and to indi=
cate that ponde is a 
> noun is not necessary. So although glosa explicitly=
 wants to avoid 
> the pseudo-information which exists in these Europein-st=
yle 
> constructs, it we can write glosa like this. But at the same time it=
 
> does not provide unambiguous ways of expressing the real content: 
> Th=
e interrelation of a noun's properties and actions, where it lacks 
> some =
markers. On the other hand the Chinese property-marker is 'de' 
> in the or=
der adjective - de - noun. weight - de - avi
> 
> So I think "U avi ge pond=
e" is much more elegant than glosa's 
> options and "noun - property marker=
 - property - action marker - 
> action" really seems a good scheme, in my =
opinion.
> 
> I myself had tried to implement such a scheme by using "qa" a=
s the 
> property "qalita" marker and "ak" as the "aktio" marker before 
> =
reading Daniel's posts:
> 
> E.g. "Tri dromo-pe qa celero e fo-sono e exces=
i sudo e alti keiro ak 
> dice qa celero e excita e fo-sono tem dromo."
> 
=
> Or also:
> 
> Celero e fo-sono e excesi sudo e alti keiro (plu) tri dromo=
-pe ak 
> dice qa celero e excita e fo-sono tem dromo.
> 
> But ge and go a=
re of course equivalent. 
> 
> I think pan-glosa might be:
> 
> Celero fo\s=
ono excesi\sono alti\keiro tri dromo-pe go dice ge celero 
> excita fo\sono=
 tem dromo.
> 
> 
> I still contemplate if "jo" and "li" are needed. 
> 
> =
Jo Pan-glosa go es li u evolve de Glosa ...
> 
> is more complicated than
>=
 
> Pan-glosa ge u evolve de Glosa ...
> 
> or even shorter:
> 
> Pan-glosa=
 ge evolve de Glosa ...
> 
> 
> I will continue thinking about that.
> 
> P=
atrick
>



