---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGdnYnJsdis0ZmdqQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhxMW5ycCs4NmZiQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1422
msgSnippet: 'Ci, in pa-tem, es poli interese sti-ma-boni sugesti pro Glosa! Mi more
  habe u simi idea iso u-ci ami! Es u paleo more frase de Cina-lingua dice: Plu hero
  habe'
nextInTime: 1423
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 10
postDate: '1271161529'
prevInTime: 1421
prevInTopic: 1077
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: ns763Bm0B-1yuMa1sp4Szq9xk_L7pH-yAGyfNWy2DfI_iCvZ4W2nEEzZvRnOA9HCnG2rN45OZs5UYPX_pf6OedR6tUud7-IoWeM
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Hello, I have some questions about Glosa'
topicId: 1044
userId: 420932182
---

Ci, in pa-tem, es poli interese sti-ma-boni sugesti pro Glosa! 
Mi more hab=
e u simi idea iso u-ci ami! Es u paleo more frase de Cina-lingua dice:"Plu =
hero habe simi idea!"

Mi nu-di serca mu ex pro na plu-ci ami te retro-vide=
 plu pa-diskusi de sti ma-boni Glosa e te lase na plu ami de pensi si Glosa=
 sio gene buta a ma-exakti libela pro ma facili e tako e korekti lekto e au=
di. 

Saluta
Li Zhenyu

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Kevin Smith" <li=
ngua@...> wrote:
>
> --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "David"  wrote:
> > =
  Hello Kevin,   I was pleased to know that you are still an 
> > enthusias=
t of Glosa as I support your views on the vocabulary 
> > and am in the pro=
cess of working through your 4000+ English 
> > to Glosa dictionary.   Did =
you ever complete it - or have you 
> > an interest in completing it?   I r=
egret that the website is 
> > no longer available.
> 
> I don't anticipate=
 having the time/energy to work on Glo/Tavo for the
> forseeable future. I =
would be happy to answer any questions about it,
> though.
> 
> Fortunately=
, the "wayback machine" archived my site at various points.
> I would consi=
der this one to be about the best starting point for
> continuing my work, =
as it is shortly before I began switching from
> Glosa/Greek vocabulary tow=
ard Latin roots:
> 
> http://web.archive.org/web/20020624123435/www.quality=
code.com/glosa/glo-intro.eng.html
> 
> However, the following details are m=
issing from that page, for some
> reason. "ca" is really important, but I'm=
 not sure if I would keep
> "sa" and "he":
> 
>  And I added a few words, w=
here Glosa just didn't have any word that
> was even close. Examples:
> 
> =
* ca - To start a verb phrase without specifying pa/nu/fu. For
> example: m=
i ca gresi. (I walk.)
> * exflu - Outflow, output.
> * he - Begins an imper=
ative sentence, where there is no subject, and
> where place is not appropr=
iate. For example: he, vora! (Eat!)
> * influ - Inflow, input.
> * pasada -=
 Past. Since Glo makes a clear distinction between particles
> and substant=
ives, pa could not serve as both a past tense verb marker
> and also as a t=
ime indicator. Glosa had words for present and future
> (presenti and futur=
i) but none for past.
> * sa - Indicates posession, like the English 's. Gl=
osa treats the
> posessive case as an adjective, which can lead to ambiguit=
y. Here is
> an example of how sa would be used in Glo: mi sa gina sibi es =
ci. (My
> sister is here).
> * susta - Sustain, support, uphold. Glosa used=
 tena for this, but tena
> has too many meanings. 
> 
> Kevin
>



