---
authorName: xShadowSoulx
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;xShadowSoulx&quot; &lt;shadowxsoul@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGhxcmJvYys5NHAzQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGh0YjQ1aSs4YmRzQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1468
msgSnippet: agreed, i would prefer a more complete book, but sadly I cant seem to
  find the physical book anywhere! should i try to say that in Glosa? Ja, mi sio prefere
  u
nextInTime: 1469
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1274614770'
prevInTime: 1467
prevInTopic: 1444
profile: shadowxsoul
replyTo: LIST
senderId: CnMq1QeAVrS5r1B4jAONo03FuIYHbLP55b9bXDDp5nT1etbDsinBqdDOHJgWQvGAcgflTGi0cfX80lxLoXkk0S0uVElCUCaaIYKKVeQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Problems with Glosa: Learning and Instruction'
topicId: 1435
userId: 333712717
---

agreed, i would prefer a more complete book, but sadly I cant seem to find =
the physical book anywhere!

should i try to say that in Glosa?

Ja, mi sio=
 prefere u ma holo bibli de Glosa. Sed mi ne pote detekti u fisio bibli ali=
-lo.

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Zhenyu" <lizhenyu_god@...> wrote:
=
>
> Karo liogab11,
> Tu es korekti! Mi este u-ci problema existe to un inte=
r-reti de poli auxlang, so Glosa debi grafo ma info de id lingua-lega e ver=
ba-ordina(syntax) te deskribe id holo neo koncepti e plu-la posi konfusi. M=
i este;Glosa volu uti u maxi no-poli lexi te expresi u maxi poli semani, is=
o "natio" semani "nation,national e nationality", ex-co, na ne habe u lexi =
"nationality". Exampla in English: What's your country=3D What's your natio=
nality. Please fill out your nation in the form=3DPlease fill out your nati=
onality in the form.
> "Country" sio vice u lexi "nationality". Na debi mor=
e u-ci puta-mode.
> 
> Saluta!
> Li Zhenyu   
> 
> 
> --- In glosalist@yaho=
ogroups.com, Liogab11 <liogab11@> wrote:
> >
> > U-CI POSTA ES MI OPINE SOL=
O.
> > 
> > I believe that there is a problem with the way Glosa is taught.=
 It might just be me, but a knocked down version of 18 Steps is not enough.=
 I feel that we need a better means of instruction in order to serve the ne=
ed for instruction for those who do not have the patience or the capability=
 to learn Glosa by deconstucting sentences. 
> > 
> > I also believe that t=
he full version of 18 Steps should be made accessible to those who wish to =
learn Glosa this way. It will also be a great supplement to the online less=
ons.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > [Non-text portions of this message have been r=
emoved]
> >
>



