---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGkzZWNhbSs1amtjQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1496
msgSnippet: Neoglosa ---- Exakti-Glosa Indication of the New Things to Glosa ... I
  have concluded all the ideas to make Glosa even more precise as below. I ve named
  the
nextInTime: 1497
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1281012886'
prevInTime: 1495
prevInTopic: 0
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: jUfJZ_AJaSOvVtDY84R0-hq1MJ_3kJkuKVtzH2aV_6G9vNjjonpfj_7jBi2E8EQTF4pveolU26lWytIrIwrrNxCiYAcGFAdjP7k
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Neoglosa ---- Exakti-Glosa
topicId: 1496
userId: 420932182
---

Neoglosa ---- Exakti-Glosa
Indication of the New Things to Glosa
------Impr=
oved by Li Zhenyu, Beijing, China
I have concluded all the ideas to make Gl=
osa even more precise as below. I've named the newly improved Glosa, "Neogl=
osa" or "Exakti-Glosa".
  
-GI,GI- =3D(-fe,fe-):auxi-gi=3Dfemale helper, au=
xi fe=3Dhelp her; gi-bovi=3Dfemale
ox(cow), bovi-gi=3Dcow girl; Fe auxi an=
=3Dshe helps him. {"gi" derives from "GIna"=3Dwoman}

-RO,RO- =3D(-an,an-):=
auxi-ro=3Dmale helper, auxi an=3Dhelp him; ro-bovi=3Dmale ox(bull),
bovi-ro=
=3Dcow boy; An auxi fe=3Dhe helps her.{"ro" derives from "andRO"=3Dman}

-p=
e remains the original usage: auxi-pe=3Dhelper
PU =3D(pe): auxi pu=3Dhelp p=
eople; pu dice=3Dpeople say {"pu" derives from "poPUla"=3Dpeople, populatio=
n}

Hereby, we can distinguish gi, ro, pe from fe, an, pu quite easily and =
clearly by ear.
*I ever considered about the place of "-ro e -gi", if I put=
 them at back as "bovi-gi=3Dfemale ox, cow", then I have to use "bovi-homi-=
gi" to express "cow woman", this will get longer and more words for it. So =
I still think "gi-bovi=3Dfemale ox(cow), bovi-gi=3Dcow girl" is better e sh=
orter!  We can go on discussing on this!

From those on:

-RI =3D(-ma) mean=
ing matter and material. Because the "ma" meaning "more" has been defined. =
"ri" derives from "mateRIa". Exp: bio-ri=3D(bio-ma) living thing, bibe-ri=
=3D(bibe-ma) drink(s) 
Frases: Face Glosa-ri boni / Face Glosa ma boni.. Co=
mparing to the old: Face Glosa-ma boni  / Face Glosa ma boni. They sound li=
ke the same " FAceGLOsamaBOni "/" FAceGLOsaMABOni "  The stress 'MA' could =
not clearly distinguish the old two frases! 

-TI =3D(-te) meaning textile =
and cloth. Because the same "te" also shortened for "tende", defined. "ri" =
derives from "texTIli". Exp: pedi-ti=3D(pedi-te) socks,
tabla-ti=3D(tabla-t=
e) table cloth

-CA =3D(-ka) meaning a room. Because the same "ka" also sho=
rtened for "kausa", defined. "ca" derives from "CAmbra(=3Dkamera)" which is=
n't in the GID but I, for this, strongly advise to add it in. Exp: kuko-ca=
=3D(kuko-ka) kitchen, kli-ca=3D(kli-ka) Bedroom. (* I ever thought about "-=
lu (derives from voLUmi)" which also means "room" among all its meanings, b=
ut the "room" here means "space", I don't know whether -lu could be OK)    =
"-ca" now is decided to use by me!
 
UN: replaces u(n)   (Singular Article)=
  "un" meaning "a" of English   (Plu=A1=AAPlural Articla)
AD: replaces a(d)=
    Exp: ad mi =3D a mi (very similar to AMI by eari); ad na =3D a na (very=
 similar to ANA by ear); ad vi =3D a vi (very similar to AVI by ear); 
KON:=
 replaces ko(n)    kon mi,  kon an; kon-face, kon-ergo
NON: replaces no(n) =
  non-beli, non-ami      I suggest use "ne" replacing "no". Exp: Qe fe es b=
eli? Ne, fe ne es beli. Ja alo ne?  Or, we can especially use "NO" like "JA=
" which is only for answers. Exp: Qe fe es beli? No, fe es non-beli.  Try t=
o feel: No, beli!(No, beautiful!) and Non-beli(Ugly!). The old forms are si=
milar to each other. Exp: No, beli and No-beli.
LE:   means   "the"   un-le=
 feli=3D le feli(the cat), un-la feli(that cat), tri-le feli (or le tri fel=
i)=3D the three cats, tri-la feli=3D those three cats.("la tri feili" doesn=
't mean "those 3 cats", but "there three cats". so I insist on "tri-le" not=
 "le tri" for regularity.)
U, A, KO, NO could be short forms, if you still =
like to use them as the original way of Glosa. 

-mo:mobili(furniture) Unch=
anged.  Exp: sedi-mo=3Dchair  (sedi mon=3D first sitting)
 
*MON(mono)=3D o=
ne /  NUM-MON=3Dfirst  (literaly derives "number one"); nume(ra) mon=3Dnumb=
er one.
bi=3Dtwo  /  num-bi=3D second
tri=3Dthree  /  num-tri=3Dthird
TET(t=
etra)=3Dfour  /  num-tet=3Dfourth
PEN(penta)=3Dfive  /  num-pen=3Dfifth
SIX=
(sixa)=3Dsix /  num-six=3Dsixth
*SET(seti),*SEP(septi)=3Dseven / num-set,nu=
m-sep=3Dseventh
OK(okto)=3Deight  /  num-ok=3Deighth
*NOV(nove),nona=3Dnine=
   /  num-nev or num-nona=3Dninth    the use of NOV as the short form of "n=
ove" derives from Latin, using it is for it's short. "Nona" ought not to be=
 shortened to "non" as a short form, because "non" replaces "no(n)" for for=
ming opposites.
MON-ZE,dek(deka)=3Dten  /  num-mon-ze or num-dek=3Dtenth
bi=
-ze=3Dtwenty  /  num-bi-ze=3Dtwentieth
MON-ZE-ZE,hekto=3D100,  /  num-mon-z=
e-ze,num-hekto=3Dhundredth
mon-ze-bi=3D102  /  num-mon-ze-bi=3D102nd 
QO-NU=
M=3D Qo nume/numera (How many)      Qo-num is much shorter than the old.
Pr=
efer using the former numerals for they are short. 
 "NUM-(NUMERAL) + word"=
 is a new way to form the ordinals by preceding the word to be modified. Al=
so we'd better prefer the original form as "WORD + NUMERAL" because which i=
s shorter. Exp: le bibli mon(the book one)=3Dle num-mon bibli (the first bo=
ok); le impresi mon de bi =3D le num-bi num-mon impresi (the second first i=
mpression); bi-le impresi mon=3D bi-le num-mon impresi(the two first impres=
sions)   
 
In order to make the grammar clearer, every noun had better fol=
low "un", "le", number, or quantity words. (If the word as a noun is obviou=
s, the "UN" before it may be dropped. ) 
mi un/plu ~ =3D my ~           na =
un/plu ~ =3D our ~
tu un/plu ~ =3D your ~           vi un/plu ~ =3D your ~ =
         
an un/plu ~ =3D his ~            
fe un/plu ~ =3D her ~          =
  mu un/plu ~ =3D their ~
id un/plu ~ =3D its ~           
an un alo fe un =
ami=3D his or her friend    an alo fe un ami=3Dhe or her friend
Exp: 
un ka=
nta=3D a song,  mon kanta=3D one song
plu kanta=3Dsongs,   poli kanta=3Dman=
y songs
pan kanta=3Dall songs
tri kanta=3Dthree songs,
mi un kanta=3Dmy son=
g,  mi (un) kanta es boni=3Dmy song is good, mi kanta-ra es boni=3D my sing=
ing is good.
mi plu kanta=3Dmy songs,  mi plu kanta es boni=3Dmy songs are =
good
mi tri kanta=3Dmy three songs,
 
mi kanta=3D I sing
mi kanta-ra=3Dmy s=
inging       "-ra" can be similarly used as Mondlango's "-ec" and English's=
 "-ing". 
(Also, mi kanta-akti=3Dmy singing, expressing that meaning by add=
ing a relative word)
   
HE=3Dimperative
he kanta=3D sing!    ne he kanta/ =
he ne kanta=3D don't sing!  kanta=3Dto sing or singing ("kanti" of Mondlang=
o)  ne kanta=3Dnot to sing or not singing ("ne kanti" of Mondlango)
(Withou=
t "he" is also acceptable, but the mood must be strong and the written form=
 must be with an exclamation mark "!" like "Kanta!" and "Ne kanta!")
"he" s=
imilar to "-ez" of Mondlango. Comparing: Tom kanta.=3DTom sings; Tom he kan=
ta!=3DTom, sing! Tom, place kanta!=3DTom, please sing!  Tom ne kanta.=3DTom=
 doesn't sing; Tom ne he kanta/ Tom he ne kanta!!=3DTom, don't sing! Tom, p=
lace ne kanta!=3DTom, please don't sing! 
"he" sounds like "Hey!" "Tom he k=
anta!" could be understood as "Tom,Hey!Sing!" The place of "he" may be put =
any where you want such as "Tom he kanta{Tom, (Hey!) Sing!)!} He Tom kanta[=
(Hey!) Tom, Sing!]! Tom kanta he![Tom, Sing!(Hey!)]" "he kanta/he-kanta" is=
 common. 
 
"I": deriving from "Iso", indicating the two words between "i" =
are appositives. Exp:
Mi i robota=3D I, robot          Comparing to the ori=
ginal: Mi, robota
Mi (un) robota=3D my robot    Comparing to the original: =
Mi robota
Na i (plu) robota=3D We, robots   "plu" elided for short.   Compa=
ring to the original: Na, plu robota
Na plu robota=3D Our robots    Compari=
ng to the original: Na plu robota
"Na" indicates itself a "plural", so the =
word after "Na i" needn't show the quantity word. Before it 
Exp: Tri-le st=
ude-pe i mi ro-sibi fu veni.=3DThe three students, my brothers will come.
T=
ri-le stude-pe iso mi ro-sibi fu veni.=3Dthe three students as my brothers =
will come.

"O": indicating the word after "o" is vocative. Exp:
Mi amo tu =
o papa!=3D I like you, (Oh) dad!      Comparing to the original: Mi amo tu,=
 papa! 
Mi amo tu (un) papa.=3D I like your dad.           Comparing to the=
 original: Mi amo tu papa.
"i" and "o" may replace the comma "," and are cl=
ear by ear, even if the pause and stress are week or off. 

"DA"=3DComparat=
ive "de"  "DE"=3DPossesive "de", unchanged    "PRI"=3DRelative "de"
Mi habe=
 ma info da Tom. =3D I have more info than Tom.        Old: Mi habe ma info=
 de Tom.
Mi habe ma info de Tom. =3D I have more info of Tom('s having).  O=
ld:Mi habe ma info de Tom.
Mi habe ma info pri Tom. =3D I have more info ab=
out Tom.       Old:Mi habe ma info de Tom.
Da qo-pe=3Dthan whom      Old: D=
e qo-pe
De qo-pe=3Dof whom        Old: De qo-pe
Pri qo-pe=3Dabout whom     =
Old: De qo-pe
Un-ci stude-pe es iso boni da un-la.=3D This student is as go=
od as that.
Un-ci stude-pe es ma boni da un-la. =3D This student is better =
than that.
Un-ci stude-pe es (le) maxi boni da plu-la. =3D This student is =
the best among those.
Un-ci stude-pe es (le) maxi boni da le klasi. =3D Thi=
s student is the best in the class.
Note:Sometimes "de" can be used as "pri=
" as the usage of English "of" if no confusion happens.
All "-" could be el=
ided, but less clear by viewing than the form with "-".  Exp: Bovi gi=3DCow=
 girl,  Gi bovi=3DCow.    Mon ze tri/ hekto tri=3D103

"-SA" =3D "-ise" in =
computeriSAtion and organiSAtion.
organi=3Dorgan,  organi-sa=3Dorganisation=

puta-me-sa=3Dcomputerisation
 
Above all, any original form of Glosa could=
 be acceptable in Neoglosa! Neoglosa can solve any problem with its new for=
ms !

What do you think? Just tell me your better ideas!

*****************=
********************************************************************
NEW AD=
DITIONS TO POSSESSIVE FORMS AS THE USAGE OF ENGLISH AND CHINESE 
(The creat=
ions below are under consideration! Currently they aren't added to Neoglosa=
 in order to maintain the compatibility between Neoglosa and Glosa )
"-CO" =
 the expansive use as a Noun Possessive Marker like "s" in "yours" not poss=
essing the following word, because of its original meaning "that or this " =
of Italian. It is also as the usage "-as in mias" of Mondlango
Exp (un-)mi-=
co/=3Dmine(my-that), plu-vi-co=3Dyours(your-those), (un-)ci-co=3Dthis(here-=
this), 
plu-la-co=3Dthose(there-those)
Tom-co=3DTom's(Tom's-that), (un-)ci-=
co=3Dthis, Bi-ci stude-gi-co=3D These two students's
"-CU"  deriving from "=
-CO", as an Adjective Possessive Marker like "'s" in "Tom's book" possessin=
g the following word "book" which is also as the usage of Chinese "de" and =
"-a" of Mondlango.
Exp  mi-cu (un) feli=3Dmy cat, vi-cu plu feli=3Dyour cat=
s, ci-cu (sth) =3D this (sth) [here's (sth)], plu-la-cu (sth)/la-cu plu (st=
h)=3Dthose (sth-s) [there's (sth-s)], plu-ci-cu (sth-s)=3Dthose (sth-s)
Cin=
a-cu arki=3DChina's right, Tom-cu domi=3DTom's home. 
Mi beli-cu kanta=3D m=
y beautiful song, *Mi un beli kanta=3DMia belo kanti, or Mia bela kanti. Co=
nfusing!
Mi beli-ce kanta=3DI beautifully sing.

Mi kanta=3D I sing, Mi-cu =
kanta/Mi un kanta=3D My song, Mi-co kanta=3DMine sings.
Bi-ci stude-gi auxi=
=3D These two students help, Bi-ci stude-gi-cu auxi=3D These two students' =
help/ The help of these two students, Bi-ci stude-gi-co auxi=3D These two s=
tudents' (that thing) helps.

"CE" deriving from "-CO", as an Adverbial Mar=
ker like English "-ly" and Mondlango's "-e"
Hedo=3Dhappy, Hedo-ce=3Dhappily=
.
Mi hedo-ce sti hedo an.=3DI happily make him happy. 
Mi-cu hedo sti hedo =
an.=3D My happiness makes him happy. 
The old: Mi hedo sti hedo an=3D"I hap=
pily make him happy." or "My happiness makes him happy."

The Multi-functio=
nal Letter "-W-"
"W" is a Great Media of forming the Parts of Speech as any=
 language like Mondlango, Esperanto, LFN etc. Because "w" is not used in Gl=
osa, so the compound of "w" + the suffixes of Mondlongo, LFN etc., could be=
 without the hyphen and directly linked to the Glosa words as roots. The or=
iginal stress of Glosa words don't change. 
W+the suffixes of Mondlango:
wo=
=3D-o, wos=3D-os, wa=3D-a, wi=3D-i, we=3D-e, wan=3D-an, win=3D-in, won=3D-o=
n, wez=3D-ez, wanta=3D-anta, ect.
W+the suffixes of Esperanto:
wo=3D-o, wos=
=3D-oj, won=3D-on, wojn=3D-ojn, wa=3D-a, waj=3D-aj, wan=3D-an, wajn=3D-ajn,=
wi=3D-i, we=3D-e, was=3D-an, wis=3D-in, wos=3D-on, wu=3D-u, wanta=3D-anta, =
ect.
HEdowe=3DHEdo-we
English: My friends happily sing the third song with =
the beautiful student
Glosa: Mi plu ami hedo kanta u kanta tri kon u beli s=
tude-pe.
Neoglosa:Mi plu ami hedo kanta le kanta tri kon le beli stude-pe.
=
Mondlango:Mia amikos hape kantan la triu kanto kum la bela studanto.
Espera=
nto: Mia amikos felice kantas la trian kanton kun la bela studanto.

Wholy =
Simulating Mondlango:
Miwa amiwos hedowe kantawan le triwu kantawo kon le b=
eliwa studewanto 
Wholy Simulating Esperanto:
Miwa amiwoj hedowe kantawas l=
e triwan kantawon kon le beliwan studewanton 
Semi-Neoglosa and Semi-Mondla=
ngo:
Mi amiwos hedo kantawi le kanta tri kon le beli stude-pe. 

Countless =
Versions as you can create with the "W"+Suffixes.
 The info in this block i=
sn't added to Neoglosa, which is only an interesting creation. 
***********=
**************************************************************************
=

Saluta!
Li Zhenyu 
April 20=A1=AAMay 4, 2010





