---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PEFBTkxrVGk9ZVZfeHJGZWJydVNyOTU0MEdydTVueGdfSytyam9xYXRTOV9zRkBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGljN2pqdCt2NWlvQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1586
msgSnippet: Dear Duncan, I ve not got a U tube. What s that? Tell me please! Gratia!
  Saluta! Li Zhenyu
nextInTime: 1587
nextInTopic: 1591
numMessagesInTopic: 13
postDate: '1290228157'
prevInTime: 1585
prevInTopic: 1584
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: ppqeiWJLFerUofSQyaJYRo9m1ATHGp1KP7wQaJSUmfT1g37V1iXhQwdDlh409NnfmSpV1xlQAis98Wf5KFxirD6TQ-LPKGZls94
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Lojban'
topicId: 1575
userId: 420932182
---

Dear Duncan,
I've not got a U tube. What's that? Tell me please! Gratia!
Sa=
luta!
Li Zhenyu

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, chris duncan <krisdunnca=
n@...> wrote:
>
> Karo Zhenyu
> Good luck with your trip to the USA,Why don=
't you plan to visit Ken Caviness
> the famous conlanger who teaches in a u=
niversity there ,you will find him on
> his  website.Do you have acsess to =
U tube where you are?
> saluta
> On 18 November 2010 05:16, Zhenyu <lizheny=
u_god@...> wrote:
> 
> >
> >
> > Karo xShadowSoulx,
> > Thank you for your =
reply on Lojban! I'm glad to know you here! Many times,
> > I had the same =
feeling like yours on Glosa. Lojban's phonology is quite odd
> > for its so=
urcing is different, which is for pure neutralization on its basic
> > word=
s, by combining parts of other two original language's words among the 6
> =
> main languages in the world. As for its grammar, it is quite over-accurat=
e
> > so that humans aren't accustomed to it. I've got the sense earlier th=
at few
> > men would feel it comfortable. But, I think, its existence is ne=
cessary. My
> > learning Lojban doesn't mean I put Glosa in the second plac=
e in my heart. My
> > love to Glosa is still! I don't know if you can read =
Glosa, so I use English
> > to reply you. I hope you can.
> > Saluta!
> > L=
i Zhenyu
> >
> >
> > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40yahoogro=
ups.com>,
> > "xShadowSoulx" <shadowxsoul@> wrote:
> > >
> > > i have perso=
nnaly studied lojban, and i find it to be a very bad choice
> > for an auxl=
ang, mostly because of its grammar. i also never like the
> > phonology sin=
ce it allows alot of bizarre consonant clusters.
> > >
> > > it is astoundi=
ngly alien and takes up way too much memory to learn. there
> > is no langu=
age on this planet that relies solely on word order like lojban
> > does to=
 differentiate gramatical case. the only cases where you see this,
> > this=
 is only used for the nominative and maybe the direct object (as in
> > eng=
lish).
> > >
> > > however, there is something similar you can do that can =
infact work, it
> > was something i toyed with while working on my own auxl=
ang. it is a concept
> > called 'coverbs' that do exist in alot of language=
s. let me give an example:
> > >
> > > let's say we had two sentences:
> > =
>
> > > i am going to my home
> > > and
> > >
> > > i am going from the sto=
re
> > >
> > > in a language that used coverbs, there would be no prepostio=
n here.
> > instead each would use a seperate verb. so these sentences woul=
d look
> > something like:
> > >
> > > i go-to home
> > > i go-from store
>=
 > >
> > > here's the interesting part: if we wanted to say the sentence "I=
 am going
> > to my home from the store", we simple combine the two sentenc=
es together
> > like so:
> > >
> > > i go-to home go-from store.
> > >
> > =
> i believe chinese does this, so maybe the chinese guy where-ever he is
> =
> could detail it more.
> > >
> >
> >  
> >
> 
> 
> 
> -- 
> C. D .
> 
> 
>=
 [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
>



