---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDMwNzA1LjAyMzcyOS4xMDM2LjAuanVzdGkubWlsbGVyQGp1bm8uY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGljOXZ2NCtrMmFjQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1590
msgSnippet: '... These examples are quite useful and just like a similar one I thought
  about. In fact, Mondlango also has the same ambiguous problem as follow: Mondlango:'
nextInTime: 1591
nextInTopic: 1593
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1290306339'
prevInTime: 1589
prevInTopic: 122
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: qRxsPnlpuAeZ0i49N_k6NGF2DfozpZIkDQQmR9wEOk3z4SUP5S2wRozM4wuw1kEpdt1YUO3mIsps--Qp3t1KQFwe6ZOgbccbZts
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Translation'
topicId: 118
userId: 420932182
---

> Fighting tigers can be dangerous.
> This sentence is ambiguous.  Does it =
mean:
> 
> >gerund / object of gerund / modal / verb / adjective 
> >Fighti=
ng       tigers               can         be    dangerous.
> 
> or:
> 
> >p=
resent participle / subject / modal / verb / adjective
> >     Fighting    =
          tigers       can       be    dangerous.
> 
> Esperantists are pro=
ud of the fact that such ambiguities cannot occur in
> their language.  Doe=
s this make English inferior to Esperanto?  No,
> English can restate the s=
entences with the proper information to remove
> the ambiguities when this =
is needed:
> 
> >Fighting with tigers can be dangerous.
> >Tigers that figh=
t can be dangerous.

> By the way, Glosa shares the same structures as Engl=
ish:
> 
> >Pugna tigri posi es risko.
> >Pugna anti tigri posi es risko.
> =
>Tigri; qi pugna, posi es risko.

These examples are quite useful and just =
like a similar one I thought about. In fact, Mondlango also has the same am=
biguous problem as follow:
Mondlango: Katos esan manjanta musos. Cats are e=
ating mice.
Glosa semani: 
/1: Plu feli du vora plu mus.
/2: Plu feli es pl=
u (du-)vora mus.
Esperanto: 
/1:Katoj estas mangxantaj musojn.
/2:Katoj est=
as mangxantaj musoj.
Here, you can see, Glosa is more exact than Mondlango =
and some languages having the same problem. 
Saluta!
Li Zhenyu


--- In glo=
salist@yahoogroups.com, Gary R Miller <justi.miller@...> wrote:
>
> Dear Ro=
bin,
> 
> I'm afraid you have missed the point.  My translation of the _Qo =
akti?_
> article does not differ from your translation (which is indeed a v=
ery
> understandable translation based on logic) because of my perception o=
f
> German, but because my perception of Glosa differs from yours.
> 
> You=
 have pointed out that Glosa semantics are based more on vocabulary
> than =
grammar.  What if a Glosa word has a different meaning in my head
> than it=
 has in yours?  Certainly, Glosa words are not yet that clearly
> defined.
=
> 
> For example, I said:
> 
> >"Homo solve _anti_ lingua difere..."
> 
> Y=
ou said:
> 
> >"Iso u solutio _ad_ difere de lingua..."
> 
> I perceived pr=
oblems caused by language diversity as something to be
> "fought against." =
 You perceived them as something a solution can be
> "applied to."  The ori=
ginal German really had more the idea that you
> translated, even though yo=
u do not know German.  (German uses the
> preposition _f=FCr_, more akin to=
 the English "for.")  Logic is a tool that
> in my hand produced one transl=
ation and in your hand produced another. 
> One translation might be more u=
nderstandable to one person and the other
> to another.  If there were a RE=
GULAR USAGE of either preposition that
> could be asserted, there would be =
no argument here.  (Or perhaps just my
> own personality or feelings about =
international auxilary languages is
> showing through.)
> 
> There are also=
 grammar differences.  I like Hogben's idea of "amplifier,"
> as seen in my=
 translation here:
> 
> >Cina-pe detekti id ma no-facili.  [Chinese find it=
 _more difficult_.]
> 
> What Hogben calls an amplifier would be called an =
_appositive_ in English
> in this instance.  (The phrase "more difficult" m=
odifies "it.")  Many
> languages use appositives.  Your solution was a stru=
cture using the
> preposition _kausa_.  Both are understable to me, and bot=
h use logic.
> 
> One of Noam Chomsky's favorite sentences was:
> 
> >Fight=
ing tigers can be dangerous.
> 
> This sentence is ambiguous.  Does it mean=
:
> 
> >gerund / object of gerund / modal / verb / adjective 
> >Fighting  =
     tigers               can         be    dangerous.
> 
> or:
> 
> >prese=
nt participle / subject / modal / verb / adjective
> >     Fighting        =
      tigers       can       be    dangerous.
> 
> Esperantists are proud o=
f the fact that such ambiguities cannot occur in
> their language.  Does th=
is make English inferior to Esperanto?  No,
> English can restate the sente=
nces with the proper information to remove
> the ambiguities when this is n=
eeded:
> 
> >Fighting with tigers can be dangerous.
> >Tigers that fight ca=
n be dangerous.
> 
> What a headache for a translator who gets only the amb=
iguous sentence! 
> Every language contains different information attached =
to its words. 
> Translators must sometimes supply missing information or o=
pt to leave out
> information that is not usually contained in the second l=
anguage.  This
> leads to differing translations by more than one translato=
r and even
> mistakes.  The proverbial "It loses something in the translati=
on" also
> applies here.
> 
> By the way, Glosa shares the same structures =
as English:
> 
> >Pugna tigri posi es risko.
> >Pugna anti tigri posi es ri=
sko.
> >Tigri; qi pugna, posi es risko.
> 
> Using the verboid also helps h=
ere:
> 
> >Akti pugna anti tigri es risko.  (_Akti_ makes _pugna_ an object=
,
> requiring the use of a preposition to connect it with _tigri_.)
> 
> I =
admire the flexibility of Glosa, as I do the interesting differences in
> o=
ur translations.
> 
> Saluta,
>  _  _
>   /.   Gary
> #/\#
>  ###
> 
> ____=
____________________________________________________________
> The best thi=
ng to hit the internet in years - Juno SpeedBand!
> Surf the web up to FIVE=
 TIMES FASTER!
> Only $14.95/ month - visit www.juno.com to sign up today!
=
>



