---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PEFBTkxrVGluMjZGb1FfclZPRjJUd3hGbU1pWjdmNWFVcHFlcXROOFJVc0g2QUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGljYTBtYStoMGhnQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1592
msgSnippet: Dear Duncan, Seems we are on line in the same moment! I got that video
  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KtcGnV6JmUI&playnext=1&list=PL3A722570A6273B65&index=1
  Is
nextInTime: 1593
nextInTopic: 1604
numMessagesInTopic: 13
postDate: '1290307082'
prevInTime: 1591
prevInTopic: 1591
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: SbhVS65SbtbfcLZ2caXo1Yu-hj9prKsMBjiSYKplOO8fpNW5V6Tw_h4bNrCm55mnZLnQMuIRGGlZ6zyvZ9GgxtiWd4shwfgW17Y
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Lojban'
topicId: 1575
userId: 420932182
---

Dear Duncan,
Seems we are on line in the same moment! I got that video http=
://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3DKtcGnV6JmUI&playnext=3D1&list=3DPL3A722570A627=
3B65&index=3D1

Is it that?
Gratia~!
Li Zhenyu

--- In glosalist@yahoogroup=
s.com, chris duncan <krisdunncan@...> wrote:
>
> dear zhenyu li ,
> most am=
erican towns have internet cafes where you can log on to the internet
> for=
 a few dollars: there is bound  to be one near whatever hotel you are
> sta=
ying in now, type in google on the web browser (firefox is the best )
>   i=
t is the same search engine available in china but without the censorship
>=
 and then type in UTUBE it is a video web site, anybody in that cafe will
>=
 help you find it, all westerners know about UTUBE
> when the UTUBE site co=
mes up type in GLOSA you will then see a number of
> video clipps where a b=
lack american guy called arpee talks about and sings
> in glosa.
> why is t=
his important? all conlangs up to now have been monopolised by
> people of =
european origins on this glosalist there is now an iraqui myalee
> an ameri=
can gary a chinese yourself and if we can recruit arpee that will
> make gl=
osa truly interacial.
> best wishes chris
> 
> On 20 November 2010 04:42, Z=
henyu <lizhenyu_god@...> wrote:
> 
> >
> >
> > Dear Duncan,
> > I've not go=
t a U tube. What's that? Tell me please! Gratia!
> > Saluta!
> > Li Zhenyu
=
> >
> >
> > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40yahoogroups.com>,=
 chris
> > duncan <krisdunncan@> wrote:
> > >
> > > Karo Zhenyu
> > > Good =
luck with your trip to the USA,Why don't you plan to visit Ken
> > Caviness=

> > > the famous conlanger who teaches in a university there ,you will fin=
d him
> > on
> > > his website.Do you have acsess to U tube where you are?
=
> > > saluta
> > > On 18 November 2010 05:16, Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@> wrote:=

> > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Karo xShadowSoulx,
> > > > Thank you for you=
r reply on Lojban! I'm glad to know you here! Many
> > times,
> > > > I had=
 the same feeling like yours on Glosa. Lojban's phonology is quite
> > odd
=
> > > > for its sourcing is different, which is for pure neutralization on =
its
> > basic
> > > > words, by combining parts of other two original langu=
age's words among
> > the 6
> > > > main languages in the world. As for its=
 grammar, it is quite
> > over-accurate
> > > > so that humans aren't accus=
tomed to it. I've got the sense earlier that
> > few
> > > > men would feel=
 it comfortable. But, I think, its existence is
> > necessary. My
> > > > l=
earning Lojban doesn't mean I put Glosa in the second place in my
> > heart=
. My
> > > > love to Glosa is still! I don't know if you can read Glosa, so=
 I use
> > English
> > > > to reply you. I hope you can.
> > > > Saluta!
> =
> > > Li Zhenyu
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <g=
losalist%40yahoogroups.com><glosalist%
> > 40yahoogroups.com>,
> >
> > > > =
"xShadowSoulx" <shadowxsoul@> wrote:
> > > > >
> > > > > i have personnaly =
studied lojban, and i find it to be a very bad
> > choice
> > > > for an au=
xlang, mostly because of its grammar. i also never like the
> > > > phonolo=
gy since it allows alot of bizarre consonant clusters.
> > > > >
> > > > > =
it is astoundingly alien and takes up way too much memory to learn.
> > the=
re
> > > > is no language on this planet that relies solely on word order l=
ike
> > lojban
> > > > does to differentiate gramatical case. the only case=
s where you see
> > this,
> > > > this is only used for the nominative and =
maybe the direct object (as in
> > > > english).
> > > > >
> > > > > howeve=
r, there is something similar you can do that can infact work,
> > it
> > >=
 > was something i toyed with while working on my own auxlang. it is a
> > =
concept
> > > > called 'coverbs' that do exist in alot of languages. let me=
 give an
> > example:
> > > > >
> > > > > let's say we had two sentences:
>=
 > > > >
> > > > > i am going to my home
> > > > > and
> > > > >
> > > > > =
i am going from the store
> > > > >
> > > > > in a language that used cover=
bs, there would be no prepostion here.
> > > > instead each would use a sep=
erate verb. so these sentences would look
> > > > something like:
> > > > >=

> > > > > i go-to home
> > > > > i go-from store
> > > > >
> > > > > here'=
s the interesting part: if we wanted to say the sentence "I am
> > going
> =
> > > to my home from the store", we simple combine the two sentences
> > t=
ogether
> > > > like so:
> > > > >
> > > > > i go-to home go-from store.
> =
> > > >
> > > > > i believe chinese does this, so maybe the chinese guy whe=
re-ever he
> > is
> > > > could detail it more.
> > > > >
> > > >
> > > >
>=
 > > >
> > >
> > >
> > >
> > > --
> > > C. D .
> > >
> > >
> > > [Non-text =
portions of this message have been removed]
> > >
> >
> >  
> >
> 
> 
> 
> =
-- 
> C. D .
> 
> 
> [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
=
>



