---
authorName: David
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;David&quot; &lt;daveyporter@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEQ0OTkzODg2QjE5NzRDOTI4MUE1NzQ1RjJBRDRBMzU5QGRhdmlkPg==
headers.referencesHeader: PGljOXZ2NCtrMmFjQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1600
msgSnippet: Interesing Zhenyu - I have been thinking (particularly since you and Myalee
  put forward proposals for changing Glosa) that all that is really necessary to
nextInTime: 1601
nextInTopic: 1606
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1290358284'
prevInTime: 1599
prevInTopic: 1595
profile: ecclesonc
replyTo: LIST
senderId: G6Wx1OTK1fAELGaL5W1KxxH3F0BY4peLEZJE9U3qau2NMuKsSJBJOC5WAP_uKsNf7aSMYRkUSqa1zSMcwKQzRGXJiPYIIEjRpg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Translation'
topicId: 118
userId: 335799855
---

   Interesing Zhenyu - I have been thinking (particularly since you and Mya=
lee put forward proposals for changing Glosa) that all that is really neces=
sary 
to remove ambiguity is, as you suggest, simply re-phrase sentences.  =
 One change I would personally favour is to have "o" endings for nouns
"a" =
ending for adjectives etc.  
   Enjoy the rest of your trip  -   wishing yo=
u well,   Davidjp


    ----- Original Message ----- 
  From: Zhenyu 
  To:=
 glosalist@yahoogroups.com 
  Sent: Sunday, November 21, 2010 2:25 AM
  Sub=
ject: [glosalist] Re: Translation


    
  > Fighting tigers can be dangero=
us.
  > This sentence is ambiguous. Does it mean:
  > 
  > >gerund / object=
 of gerund / modal / verb / adjective 
  > >Fighting tigers can be dangerou=
s.
  > 
  > or:
  > 
  > >present participle / subject / modal / verb / adj=
ective
  > > Fighting tigers can be dangerous.
  > 
  > Esperantists are pr=
oud of the fact that such ambiguities cannot occur in
  > their language. D=
oes this make English inferior to Esperanto? No,
  > English can restate th=
e sentences with the proper information to remove
  > the ambiguities when =
this is needed:
  > 
  > >Fighting with tigers can be dangerous.
  > >Tiger=
s that fight can be dangerous.

  > By the way, Glosa shares the same struc=
tures as English:
  > 
  > >Pugna tigri posi es risko.
  > >Pugna anti tigr=
i posi es risko.
  > >Tigri; qi pugna, posi es risko.

  These examples are=
 quite useful and just like a similar one I thought about. In fact, Mondlan=
go also has the same ambiguous problem as follow:
  Mondlango: Katos esan m=
anjanta musos. Cats are eating mice.
  Glosa semani: 
  /1: Plu feli du vor=
a plu mus.
  /2: Plu feli es plu (du-)vora mus.
  Esperanto: 
  /1:Katoj es=
tas mangxantaj musojn.
  /2:Katoj estas mangxantaj musoj.
  Here, you can s=
ee, Glosa is more exact than Mondlango and some languages having the same p=
roblem. 
  Saluta!
  Li Zhenyu

  --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Gary R =
Miller <justi.miller@...> wrote:
  >
  > Dear Robin,
  > 
  > I'm afraid yo=
u have missed the point. My translation of the _Qo akti?_
  > article does =
not differ from your translation (which is indeed a very
  > understandable=
 translation based on logic) because of my perception of
  > German, but be=
cause my perception of Glosa differs from yours.
  > 
  > You have pointed =
out that Glosa semantics are based more on vocabulary
  > than grammar. Wha=
t if a Glosa word has a different meaning in my head
  > than it has in you=
rs? Certainly, Glosa words are not yet that clearly
  > defined.
  > 
  > F=
or example, I said:
  > 
  > >"Homo solve _anti_ lingua difere..."
  > 
  >=
 You said:
  > 
  > >"Iso u solutio _ad_ difere de lingua..."
  > 
  > I pe=
rceived problems caused by language diversity as something to be
  > "fough=
t against." You perceived them as something a solution can be
  > "applied =
to." The original German really had more the idea that you
  > translated, =
even though you do not know German. (German uses the
  > preposition _f=FCr=
_, more akin to the English "for.") Logic is a tool that
  > in my hand pro=
duced one translation and in your hand produced another. 
  > One translati=
on might be more understandable to one person and the other
  > to another.=
 If there were a REGULAR USAGE of either preposition that
  > could be asse=
rted, there would be no argument here. (Or perhaps just my
  > own personal=
ity or feelings about international auxilary languages is
  > showing throu=
gh.)
  > 
  > There are also grammar differences. I like Hogben's idea of "=
amplifier,"
  > as seen in my translation here:
  > 
  > >Cina-pe detekti i=
d ma no-facili. [Chinese find it _more difficult_.]
  > 
  > What Hogben ca=
lls an amplifier would be called an _appositive_ in English
  > in this ins=
tance. (The phrase "more difficult" modifies "it.") Many
  > languages use =
appositives. Your solution was a structure using the
  > preposition _kausa=
_. Both are understable to me, and both use logic.
  > 
  > One of Noam Cho=
msky's favorite sentences was:
  > 
  > >Fighting tigers can be dangerous.
=
  > 
  > This sentence is ambiguous. Does it mean:
  > 
  > >gerund / objec=
t of gerund / modal / verb / adjective 
  > >Fighting tigers can be dangero=
us.
  > 
  > or:
  > 
  > >present participle / subject / modal / verb / ad=
jective
  > > Fighting tigers can be dangerous.
  > 
  > Esperantists are p=
roud of the fact that such ambiguities cannot occur in
  > their language. =
Does this make English inferior to Esperanto? No,
  > English can restate t=
he sentences with the proper information to remove
  > the ambiguities when=
 this is needed:
  > 
  > >Fighting with tigers can be dangerous.
  > >Tige=
rs that fight can be dangerous.
  > 
  > What a headache for a translator w=
ho gets only the ambiguous sentence! 
  > Every language contains different=
 information attached to its words. 
  > Translators must sometimes supply =
missing information or opt to leave out
  > information that is not usually=
 contained in the second language. This
  > leads to differing translations=
 by more than one translator and even
  > mistakes. The proverbial "It lose=
s something in the translation" also
  > applies here.
  > 
  > By the way,=
 Glosa shares the same structures as English:
  > 
  > >Pugna tigri posi es=
 risko.
  > >Pugna anti tigri posi es risko.
  > >Tigri; qi pugna, posi es =
risko.
  > 
  > Using the verboid also helps here:
  > 
  > >Akti pugna ant=
i tigri es risko. (_Akti_ makes _pugna_ an object,
  > requiring the use of=
 a preposition to connect it with _tigri_.)
  > 
  > I admire the flexibili=
ty of Glosa, as I do the interesting differences in
  > our translations.
 =
 > 
  > Saluta,
  > _ _
  > /. Gary
  > #/\#
  > ###
  > 
  > _____________=
_____________________________________________
  > The best thing to hit the=
 internet in years - Juno SpeedBand!
  > Surf the web up to FIVE TIMES FAST=
ER!
  > Only $14.95/ month - visit www.juno.com to sign up today!
  >



  =


--
I am using the free version of SPAMfighter.
We are a community of 7 mi=
llion users fighting spam.
SPAMfighter has removed 4995 of my spam emails t=
o date.
Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len

The =
Professional version does not have this message


[Non-text portions of thi=
s message have been removed]


