---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PEQ0OTkzODg2QjE5NzRDOTI4MUE1NzQ1RjJBRDRBMzU5QGRhdmlkPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGljY3FrOCttM3ZhQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1606
msgSnippet: 'Dear David, Ave! Gluko de ski tu! I think, if we should add something
  to Glosa words showing the word s parts of speech, there generally two ways: 1:
  adding a'
nextInTime: 1607
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1290399176'
prevInTime: 1605
prevInTopic: 1600
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: rUPD9_YGlrP2W6OdafxFeRJX_9LP1Oa6tEaMAKLV1sS4RekgfXCOh-seC-csuZgogv8PQGvtJx4eWVJjq173aFenTTV4lOsnBLE
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Translation'
topicId: 118
userId: 420932182
---

Dear David,
Ave! Gluko de ski tu! I think, if we should add something to Gl=
osa words showing the word's parts of speech, there generally two ways: 1: =
adding a function word before the following word; 2: adjusting the final vo=
wel into "o" for noun, "a" for adj., "e" for adv., and "i" for verb. In my =
feeling, the first way is better, coz it's on the isolating linguage's comm=
on way like Lojban. The 2nd way could save letters but its words have to be=
 re-chosen. Eg: amo(to like) in way 2: amo=3Dliking,n. ama=3D of to like,ad=
j. ami=3D to like,v. ame=3D likingly,adv. While original "ami(friend)" has =
no way to appear for avoiding confusion, so "friend" has to be in another f=
orm like "amo-pe" or "amiko".  Thus, I prefer the 1st way!
"zu" for indicat=
ing the following phrase a verbal phrase. This may be the only adding thing=
 to resolve every confusion.
Mi zu doxo, si na zu muta uno-ra de Glosa, na =
zu debi akti iso u mode de Lojban alo Loglan. Mi zu pa loka mi Logika-glosa=
 in "Files" qi zu pote gene uno gradu muta per ma-boni.

Eg:
An auxi-fe=3D =
His female helper
An zu auxi fe=3D He helps her  Here, we have no reason to=
 think "zu auxi fe" as "zu auxi-fe" which is impossible to have a verb like=
 "to helper sth."

An pa auxi-fe=3D His past female helper
An zu pa auxi fe=
=3D He helped her

Zu auxi fe=3D help her
Zu auxi fe!=3D help her!


"ZU" d=
erives from German "zu(to)" meaning "to do sth" which could be a great sepe=
rator between the proceeding noun phrase and the following verbal phrase.

=

Saluta!

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "David" <daveyporter@...> wrote=
:
>
>    Interesing Zhenyu - I have been thinking (particularly since you a=
nd Myalee put forward proposals for changing Glosa) that all that is really=
 necessary 
> to remove ambiguity is, as you suggest, simply re-phrase sent=
ences.   One change I would personally favour is to have "o" endings for no=
uns
> "a" ending for adjectives etc.  
>    Enjoy the rest of your trip  - =
  wishing you well,   Davidjp
> 
> 
>     ----- Original Message ----- 
>  =
 From: Zhenyu 
>   To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com 
>   Sent: Sunday, Novembe=
r 21, 2010 2:25 AM
>   Subject: [glosalist] Re: Translation
> 
> 
>     
> =
  > Fighting tigers can be dangerous.
>   > This sentence is ambiguous. Doe=
s it mean:
>   > 
>   > >gerund / object of gerund / modal / verb / adjecti=
ve 
>   > >Fighting tigers can be dangerous.
>   > 
>   > or:
>   > 
>   > =
>present participle / subject / modal / verb / adjective
>   > > Fighting t=
igers can be dangerous.
>   > 
>   > Esperantists are proud of the fact tha=
t such ambiguities cannot occur in
>   > their language. Does this make Eng=
lish inferior to Esperanto? No,
>   > English can restate the sentences wit=
h the proper information to remove
>   > the ambiguities when this is neede=
d:
>   > 
>   > >Fighting with tigers can be dangerous.
>   > >Tigers that =
fight can be dangerous.
> 
>   > By the way, Glosa shares the same structur=
es as English:
>   > 
>   > >Pugna tigri posi es risko.
>   > >Pugna anti t=
igri posi es risko.
>   > >Tigri; qi pugna, posi es risko.
> 
>   These exa=
mples are quite useful and just like a similar one I thought about. In fact=
, Mondlango also has the same ambiguous problem as follow:
>   Mondlango: K=
atos esan manjanta musos. Cats are eating mice.
>   Glosa semani: 
>   /1: =
Plu feli du vora plu mus.
>   /2: Plu feli es plu (du-)vora mus.
>   Espera=
nto: 
>   /1:Katoj estas mangxantaj musojn.
>   /2:Katoj estas mangxantaj m=
usoj.
>   Here, you can see, Glosa is more exact than Mondlango and some la=
nguages having the same problem. 
>   Saluta!
>   Li Zhenyu
> 
>   --- In g=
losalist@yahoogroups.com, Gary R Miller <justi.miller@> wrote:
>   >
>   > =
Dear Robin,
>   > 
>   > I'm afraid you have missed the point. My translati=
on of the _Qo akti?_
>   > article does not differ from your translation (w=
hich is indeed a very
>   > understandable translation based on logic) beca=
use of my perception of
>   > German, but because my perception of Glosa di=
ffers from yours.
>   > 
>   > You have pointed out that Glosa semantics ar=
e based more on vocabulary
>   > than grammar. What if a Glosa word has a d=
ifferent meaning in my head
>   > than it has in yours? Certainly, Glosa wo=
rds are not yet that clearly
>   > defined.
>   > 
>   > For example, I sai=
d:
>   > 
>   > >"Homo solve _anti_ lingua difere..."
>   > 
>   > You said=
:
>   > 
>   > >"Iso u solutio _ad_ difere de lingua..."
>   > 
>   > I per=
ceived problems caused by language diversity as something to be
>   > "foug=
ht against." You perceived them as something a solution can be
>   > "appli=
ed to." The original German really had more the idea that you
>   > transla=
ted, even though you do not know German. (German uses the
>   > preposition=
 _f=FCr_, more akin to the English "for.") Logic is a tool that
>   > in my=
 hand produced one translation and in your hand produced another. 
>   > On=
e translation might be more understandable to one person and the other
>   =
> to another. If there were a REGULAR USAGE of either preposition that
>   =
> could be asserted, there would be no argument here. (Or perhaps just my
>=
   > own personality or feelings about international auxilary languages is
=
>   > showing through.)
>   > 
>   > There are also grammar differences. I =
like Hogben's idea of "amplifier,"
>   > as seen in my translation here:
> =
  > 
>   > >Cina-pe detekti id ma no-facili. [Chinese find it _more difficu=
lt_.]
>   > 
>   > What Hogben calls an amplifier would be called an _appos=
itive_ in English
>   > in this instance. (The phrase "more difficult" modi=
fies "it.") Many
>   > languages use appositives. Your solution was a struc=
ture using the
>   > preposition _kausa_. Both are understable to me, and b=
oth use logic.
>   > 
>   > One of Noam Chomsky's favorite sentences was:
>=
   > 
>   > >Fighting tigers can be dangerous.
>   > 
>   > This sentence i=
s ambiguous. Does it mean:
>   > 
>   > >gerund / object of gerund / modal =
/ verb / adjective 
>   > >Fighting tigers can be dangerous.
>   > 
>   > o=
r:
>   > 
>   > >present participle / subject / modal / verb / adjective
> =
  > > Fighting tigers can be dangerous.
>   > 
>   > Esperantists are proud=
 of the fact that such ambiguities cannot occur in
>   > their language. Do=
es this make English inferior to Esperanto? No,
>   > English can restate t=
he sentences with the proper information to remove
>   > the ambiguities wh=
en this is needed:
>   > 
>   > >Fighting with tigers can be dangerous.
>  =
 > >Tigers that fight can be dangerous.
>   > 
>   > What a headache for a =
translator who gets only the ambiguous sentence! 
>   > Every language cont=
ains different information attached to its words. 
>   > Translators must s=
ometimes supply missing information or opt to leave out
>   > information t=
hat is not usually contained in the second language. This
>   > leads to di=
ffering translations by more than one translator and even
>   > mistakes. T=
he proverbial "It loses something in the translation" also
>   > applies he=
re.
>   > 
>   > By the way, Glosa shares the same structures as English:
>=
   > 
>   > >Pugna tigri posi es risko.
>   > >Pugna anti tigri posi es ris=
ko.
>   > >Tigri; qi pugna, posi es risko.
>   > 
>   > Using the verboid a=
lso helps here:
>   > 
>   > >Akti pugna anti tigri es risko. (_Akti_ makes=
 _pugna_ an object,
>   > requiring the use of a preposition to connect it =
with _tigri_.)
>   > 
>   > I admire the flexibility of Glosa, as I do the =
interesting differences in
>   > our translations.
>   > 
>   > Saluta,
>  =
 > _ _
>   > /. Gary
>   > #/\#
>   > ###
>   > 
>   > ____________________=
______________________________________
>   > The best thing to hit the inte=
rnet in years - Juno SpeedBand!
>   > Surf the web up to FIVE TIMES FASTER!=

>   > Only $14.95/ month - visit www.juno.com to sign up today!
>   >
> 
>=
 
> 
>   
> 
> --
> I am using the free version of SPAMfighter.
> We are a =
community of 7 million users fighting spam.
> SPAMfighter has removed 4995 =
of my spam emails to date.
> Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spam=
fighter.com/len
> 
> The Professional version does not have this message
> =

> 
> [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
>



