---
authorName: chris duncan
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: chris duncan &lt;krisdunncan@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGljZThmZCszbzJjQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEFBTkxrVGluQ1VfMlhucVN4N1drKzBncGNfTXp0alAyajIrTDRjc0RCbV9KT0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PGljZThmZCszbzJjQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1613
msgSnippet: HI myalee.saluta.as salaam alaikum the choice of a more greek based vocabulary
  rather than  a latin one was because the greek  roots were more often used in
nextInTime: 1614
nextInTopic: 1624
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1290531474'
prevInTime: 1612
prevInTopic: 1610
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 3Z0FkInF1aO6O-gSbPvwlk4AkDzyMzmjoR3SPfQ9bSHhlWFyCHkem27TRmjlpBBgT5hSy2zXq58P2EkZWTGVa_qDWr3GQtjsHc_q
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] GLISA(neo glosa de myaleee)'
topicId: 1607
userId: 459066750
---

HI myalee.saluta.as salaam alaikum
the choice of a more greek based vocabul=
ary rather than  a latin one was
because the greek  roots were more often u=
sed in scientific writings  and
were thus more internationaly known in the =
scientific community. As you read
arabic you will know that many of the phi=
losphical terms used by al kindi,
ibn sina ,al ghazali,ibn rushd etc were b=
ased on greek not latin.(if you are
an iraqui christian the same applies to=
 syriac- aramaic writings)
the large number of "romance clones" that claim =
to be international . with
the exception of mondo lango. are the work of ea=
rly twentieth  century
middle class  europeans who hated the dominance of t=
he english and german
languages.how many conlangs do you know  that have ge=
rmanic languages as a
source of vocabulary.even now esperanto writings are =
saturated with anti-
english articles.on top of that they are constanly fig=
hting each other over
which minute difference between them is more "interna=
tional"lets face it
when you look at interlingua or lingua franca nova dont=
 you just think why
bother ,why not just use italian or spanish instead the=
y are all practically
the same.glosa is above all of that.
best wishes chri=
s duncan


On 22 November 2010 17:15, myaleee n <myaleee@...> wrote:
=

>
>
> nosa amiko fe=3Dna ami-fe; para ta ta for adject=3Dneiborining)
> am=
i ta=3Dloving; ela=3Dher sibo fe=3D fe-sibi;
> seqe te =3Dseqe-co; otra=3Dh=
etero(me prefer latin, more recognisable
> internationally); prekron te=3D =
in past , te=3Dfor adverb; sea=3Dhis own; zi sti;
> sibo fes=3Dsisters s=3D=
plural ; aj=3Dimperative tense;aj veni=3Dcome
> Blieve me glosa-pe , glisa =
is isolating, clear, not confusing, very
> simplest of all!!!
>
> Jon: Papa=
, mi voli mariti Susan, nosa amiko fe en para ta domo!
> Patro: Nulitem! Ka=
 mi prekron te habi ami ta relati ko ela matro! El es tua
> sibo fe!
> Jon:=
 Seqi te, mi sio mariti Mary, nosa otra para ta amiko fe!
> Patro: Nulimode=
!! Plus te, mi prekron te habi ami ta relati ko ela matro!
> Mi peniti, el =
anke es tua sibo fe!
>
> Jon pa kini a sea matro, e pa dici trista te: Papa=
 pa refusi mariti zi mi
> ko Mary alo Susan, ka ili ambi es mia sibo fes!
>=
 Matro: Aj es felica! Tu poti mariti alife qi tu desiri! Ka reala te, papa
=
> ne es tua patro!
> -----
> na=3D gene; ami na=3Dbeloved; prizi=3D like; z=
a=3D full of , floro za=3Dcolorful
> ajo=3Dthing; li=3D worthy lekti li=3D =
merits reading ; plu dei=3D plu de
>
> O mia bela ami na fe!
> Qo doro mi s=
io doni a tu
> In tua nati-di ?
> Anelo alo brakaleto de oro ?
> Mi ne priz=
i kadenos sirke tua manuos !!
> Alo dulca mielo de flami za koloro komo mia=
 kardio !!
> Sed la vera mielo es in tua labios ruba !!
> Alo vino? Sed in =
tota mundo, ne es vino
> Komo uci, qi versi ex tua seduci za okos !
> Mi ne=
 habi ajo plu valui li dei la spirito !
> Aj preni! Mia spirito es infra tu=
a komando !
>
> I hope you like my glisa and your suggestions, plu kara glo=
sa pe
> saluta
> myaleee
>
>  
>



-- 
C. D .


[Non-text portions of this=
 message have been removed]


