---
authorName: myaleee nimah
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: myaleee nimah &lt;myaleee@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PEFBTkxrVGluU0s3a0dSUTdjQzgrSGpOeE1LWEVtK3JLcHdqMXlOLWFfMEVRYUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDI2ODk0OC45NjIyOS5xbUB3ZWIxMTE0MDEubWFpbC5ncTEueWFob28uY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: PEFBTkxrVGk9VTY4Qjl0eVNFd2ZjKzF2OEJ4YzRFUDBkWnZ2RUtoOE9rcUVtcUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4gPGljb2pmMCsxbzFhQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPiA8QUFOTGtUaW5TSzdrR1JRN2NDOCtIak54TUtYRW0rcktwd2oxeU4tYV8wRVFhQG1haWwuZ21haWwuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1628
msgSnippet: Hello fabiomota your prompt reply is great! I learned esperanto passionately
  since 1973, but abandoned it for 20years! recently I I am eloquent in Urdu(hindi),
nextInTime: 1629
nextInTopic: 1630
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1290798795'
prevInTime: 1627
prevInTopic: 1627
profile: myaleee
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 0xS01wh08MK8mYkTkNSaxkAf2hbPNzZjbaBkEuxOL6WMR5AxuQOP11Ox1RanGMrugTLZBYStzftkTl1UG_uazNiSJ0C0nixy
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: GLISA(neo glosa de myaleee)'
topicId: 1607
userId: 288947930
---

Hello fabiomota
your prompt reply is great!
I learned esperanto passionatel=
y since 1973, but abandoned it for 20years! 
recently I I am eloquent in Ur=
du(hindi), English,french,lfn(lingua franca 
nova,simplest conlang),ido. Wh=
en I learned glosa , I loved it for 1- 
isolating,2-one word many functions=
, use of greek words(i know already). I 
tanslated excellent texts in glosa=
.
But....
I discovered  one word with many functions is confusing, those ug=
ly "-"( 
dice-pe),thje dictionary has many types of word for one meaning:pr=
efered(+++), 
usable(+),rare but acceptable(), greek and latin as synonyms!=
 tele and dista for 
"far". Imagine I translate a poem in 5 minutes(easy gr=
ammar)_but I spend 30 
minutes for using language tricks to make it underst=
andable. This is quick and 
direct in my glisa,lfn,esperanto,ido!


_______=
_________________________
From: Fabio Lentulio Mota Filho <fabiomota@...=
m>
To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Fri, November 26, 2010 8:20:05 AM
Su=
bject: Re: [glosalist] Re: GLISA(neo glosa de myaleee)

  
Dear MyAllee,

T=
hank you for your reply. Recently I started studying Glosa (www.glosa.org)
=
and really liked the language. I've studied a bit of Esperanto and the new
=
Fasile (www.fasile.org).
In GLOSA liked the way "isolated" or the word with=
out any change in gender,
number or superlatives. I did not like the suffix=
e  -mo, -me and others that
overlap with other words as the number 1 or the=
 personal pronoun "me".
I am a doctor, a gynecologist and obstetrician, and=
 work in Brazil. I am 46
years and 2 children (10 and 16 years).
Fabio Mota=


2010/11/26 myaleee n <myaleee@...>

>
>
> Dear Fabio Lentulio Mota
=
> thanks for your kind opinion
> I am iraqi doctor ,60 years old. I want to=
 know all about you, please!!
> 1-what kind of problems -o, -e, -a ends giv=
e : It is excellent way to
> recognise kind of words (in hearing and speaki=
ng) !
> 2- if you read and write in this language, you can feel how easy an=
d pretty
> it is.
> 3- different endings (eg english : promise(noun and ver=
b), adult,adulthood,
> rich,richness,infant, infancy,invite, invitation etc=
 ). Instead of "-o", a
> beginner needs to memmorise a lot of endings!
> 4-=
in french more than 400 forms for common verbs. In glisa, only FOUR:
> pa,f=
u,sio,nu before verbs! mi fu veni I shall come. Natural
> ending-interlingu=
a is hundred times more difficult than my glisa.
> please read,seeing food =
is unlike tasting!!
> thanks
> myaleee
>
>
> --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.c=
om <glosalist%40yahoogroups.com>, Fabio
> Lentulio Mota Filho <fabiomota@..=
.> wrote:
> >
> > I do not like the idea of changing the final words to "o"=
, "a" ... there
> are
> > already several other languages with this charact=
eristic and this only
> > causes problems.
> >
> >
> >
> > 2010/11/23 Zheny=
u <lizhenyu_god@...>
>
> >
> > >
> > >
> > > Karo Myaleee,
> > > I ever had=
 an idea like "-o"=3D n., "-a"=3Dadj., "-e"=3Dadv., "-i"=3Dv., but a
> > > =
little different from yours. I will show you later when I'm back to
> Beiji=
ng.
> > > In your word list, I dislike the word "komputero(computer)", whic=
h is a
> > > unwise word. "Puta-me(computer)"=3DPuta(compute,think); "-me"=
=3Dmachine.
> How do
> > > you devide your word "komputero", which is a dea=
d word! Many same
> unwise
> > > words exist in your wordlist. Please re-co=
nsider about them!
> > > Saluta!
> > > Li Zhenyu
> > >
> > >
> > > --- In g=
losalist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40yahoogroups.com><glosalist%
> 40yahoo=
groups.com>, "myaleee
>
> > > n" <myaleee@> wrote:
> > > >
> > > > nosa ami=
ko fe=3Dna ami-fe; para ta ta for adject=3Dneiborining)
> > > > ami ta=3Dlo=
ving; ela=3Dher sibo fe=3D fe-sibi;
> > > > seqe te =3Dseqe-co; otra=3Dhete=
ro(me prefer latin, more recognisable
> > > internationally); prekron te=3D=
 in past , te=3Dfor adverb; sea=3Dhis own; zi
> sti;
> > > sibo fes=3Dsiste=
rs s=3Dplural ; aj=3Dimperative tense;aj veni=3Dcome
> > > > Blieve me glos=
a-pe , glisa is isolating, clear, not confusing, very
> > > simplest of all=
!!!
> > > >
> > > > Jon: Papa, mi voli mariti Susan, nosa amiko fe en para =
ta domo!
> > > > Patro: Nulitem! Ka mi prekron te habi ami ta relati ko ela=
 matro! El
> es
> > > tua sibo fe!
> > > > Jon: Seqi te, mi sio mariti Mary=
, nosa otra para ta amiko fe!
> > > > Patro: Nulimode!! Plus te, mi prekron=
 te habi ami ta relati ko ela
> matro!
> > > Mi peniti, el anke es tua sibo=
 fe!
> > > >
> > > > Jon pa kini a sea matro, e pa dici trista te: Papa pa =
refusi mariti
> zi mi
> > > ko Mary alo Susan, ka ili ambi es mia sibo fes!=

> > > > Matro: Aj es felica! Tu poti mariti alife qi tu desiri! Ka reala t=
e,
> papa
> > > ne es tua patro!
> > > > -----
> > > > na=3D gene; ami na=
=3Dbeloved; prizi=3D like; za=3D full of , floro
> za=3Dcolorful
> > > > aj=
o=3Dthing; li=3D worthy lekti li=3D merits reading ; plu dei=3D plu de
> > =
> >
> > > > O mia bela ami na fe!
> > > > Qo doro mi sio doni a tu
> > > > =
In tua nati-di ?
> > > > Anelo alo brakaleto de oro ?
> > > > Mi ne prizi k=
adenos sirke tua manuos !!
> > > > Alo dulca mielo de flami za koloro komo =
mia kardio !!
> > > > Sed la vera mielo es in tua labios ruba !!
> > > > Al=
o vino? Sed in tota mundo, ne es vino
> > > > Komo uci, qi versi ex tua sed=
uci za okos !
> > > > Mi ne habi ajo plu valui li dei la spirito !
> > > > =
Aj preni! Mia spirito es infra tua komando !
> > > >
> > > > I hope you lik=
e my glisa and your suggestions, plu kara glosa pe
> > > > saluta
> > > > m=
yaleee
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > >
> >
> >
> > [Non-text portions of this mes=
sage have been removed]
> >
>
> 
>

[Non-text portions of this message have=
 been removed]


 


      

[Non-text portions of this message have been r=
emoved]


