---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDJiLjQ0ZTQ1MGViLjJjNTU3MjBmQGFvbC5jb20+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwODAxMTIxNzM4LjAwNzI5OWE0QHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 167
msgSnippet: '... have:- ... Robert ... and my ... good style. ... R pa ... Karo Glosa-pe,
  Yes, Sid is right about the difference between local lingo and speaking to'
nextInTime: 168
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1059704258'
prevInTime: 166
prevInTopic: 155
profile: bliminus_107_ssaass
replyTo: LIST
senderId: piulK8OgIGxTY7cMcu8zd8guuP73h-8oDttyXX5BSC96De0CHVn8q9XYTIwjKIRox1hg43MkEA8BNjMiKT7rvGXGyDawM3_gI8AXOc5gNe3tOGyo0w
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] roberti3-dice'
topicId: 155
userId: 147970330
---

At 02:21 PM 7/27/03 EDT, you wrote:
>My bad mistake in "Roberti" raises interesting points.
>
>"Roberti", pa dice Beti.
>"Robert", said Betty.
>If one says the English sentence, the punctuation is inaudible. We now
have:- 
>'Roberti said Betty'.
>Usual order - S V O gives 'R said "Betty" ', what is required is:- '
"Robert" 
>was said by Betty'. ' "Roberti", pa gene/ge Beti'.
>If I am talking to someone with the same language and accent as mine 
>(northern English), he/she would understand my elisions of "was" and "by"
and my 
>intonation; it is now more concise and more forceful - bad grammar but
good style. 
>However, if the listener is not English, my statement is bad international 
>language. Glosa is meant to be an international language therefore, - '
"R" pa 
>dice B' -  is BAD Glosa.
>plu mi penite.
>
>We should always bear in mind that our Glosa is aimed at some person perhaps 
>isolated in the wilds of a little visited country far from one's own.  
>
Karo Glosa-pe,
  Yes, Sid is right about the difference between local lingo and speaking
to someone .. out there.
  We ought to watch our sentence structure when writing Glosa, remembering
that inflections are not there to help us with 'Parts-of-Speech.
  Also, for many people, the S-V-O structure is not necessarily as common
as it is in English.
  ~Tegu sed epi kani.~ is clearly wrong from context and syntax.
  But, ~Beti dice "Roberti."~ is spot on for a SVO sentence, and is thus
more readily seen to be good Glosa.
  The Passive Voice is difficult for this situation:-
        (THE NAME) "ROBERT" WAS CALLED BY BETTY
               'Roberti,' gene ge-voka ex beti.

  My guess is that the question we should be asking ourselves is whether we
are using predominantly SVO clauses, and if our phrases come in the right
places for good syntax.

Saluta,

Robin



