---
authorName: myaleee n
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;myaleee n&quot; &lt;myaleee@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMTEwMjE0LjA4MzcxNi4zMzQwLjAuanVzdGkubWlsbGVyQGp1bm8uY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGlqYnJnbituNGhpQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1715
msgSnippet: Karo Sr.Miller Mi senti fo mega penite pro tu plu tristi-ra.:-( Teo sio
  boni-dice tu famili. We must solve differences by referring to grammar of
nextInTime: 1716
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1297707351'
prevInTime: 1714
prevInTopic: 1714
profile: myaleee
replyTo: LIST
senderId: P5PVVJnoVJ1r7x3a2GrHH_4nHtb7-qaERhQzM0qzpvQpXPx5JbwhoTDuTx7xs6AEdARf6DY-HAyxhAOJ9eyzBpj2OTl9Gw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Sti'
topicId: 1713
userId: 288947930
---

Karo Sr.Miller
Mi senti fo mega penite pro tu plu tristi-ra.:-(
Teo sio bon=
i-dice tu famili.

We must solve differences by referring to grammar of Wen=
dy(18steps) which defines "sti" with examples and to core dict.:
sti       =
       switch on; cause; put into gear ; set going ; 
                   in=
duce; initiate; make (cause); set in motion ; 
                   prod; pro=
mpt; provoke; quick; reason (n); 
                   start (process); stimu=
late; turn on 

sti kredi        convince; persuade 
sti memo         remin=
d 
sti more         accustom 
sti pato         infect
sti pote         enab=
le 
sti ski          announce 
sti vigi         arouse; rouse; wake up

Na =
nece sti logi u demo u gravi de Glosa.  	We must make people understand the=
 importance of Glosa.
Tu nece sti vora an.  	You have to make him eat.
Fe p=
a sti gresi mi.  	She made me walk.
----
"sti" clearly changes (make,cause)=
intran. to trans. verb
see mi  vigi=3D I wake up, mi sti vigi mi ami=3D I r=
ouse my friend.
"cerka"=3D search , transitive : mi cerka biblo.
"Mu pa sti=
 kine." sti + kine=3D cause to move, better expressed : Mu pa sti kine u va=
gona=3D they made, caused the car to go; u vagona pa 
kine(intran.)=3Dthe c=
ar ran, moved
If we use "sti" otherwise(not in grammar) it'd cause confusio=
n.
sti is like -igi suffix of espranto.

me pa lekto tu kali translati de n=
esia de tesoro e u hetreo-ra; sed place mi ma-amo si tu sio translati plu p=
usi nara, alo poema, komo Sr. Niles Aesop nara.
Ko amo e penite,
myaleee
--=
- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Gary R Miller <justi.miller@...> wrote:
>
>=
 Kara Glosa-pe--
> 
> A verb that is transitive in one language is very oft=
en intransitive in
> another language.  Because of this, the rule in Glosa =
is simply:  If the
> verb takes an object, it is transitive; if it doesn't =
take an object, it
> is intransitive.
> 
> People from most different langu=
ages tend to say:
> Mi cerka mi oku lenti.
> 
> In English the verb for CER=
KA is intransitive, so an English speaker
> would be more likely to say:
> =
Mi cerka de mi oku lenti.  [I'm looking FOR my glasses.]
> 
> There is no i=
mportant difference in the meanings.
> 
> And one more thing:  If I say:
> =
Mu pa sti kine.
> 
> Is KINE here a noun or a verb?  Who can say for sure? =
 But the meaning is
> the same either way.
> 
> Sorry I haven't been able t=
o write much lately.  My mother- and
> father-in-law have been in-and-out o=
f the hospital lately with heart
> problems, and my own father just died of=
 cancer.
> 
> Keep up the good work!
> -> Dura vi boni ergo!
> 
> Saluta,
>=
 _ _
>  /.
> /\   Gary
> #
> ______________________________________________=
______________
> $65/Hr Job - 25 Openings
> Part-Time job ($20-$65/hr). Req=
uirements: Home Internet Access
> http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/=
4d593e76a0cd420445m06duc
>



