---
authorName: Ian Niles
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Ian Niles &lt;ian_niles@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGlwNGV2cCtnb2kyQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENPTDEwNS1XNDMxQkEzMUYwRjg2QzNFNUI2QkZCOEI5NjBAcGh4LmdibD4=
headers.referencesHeader: PENPTDEwNS1XMzA3RDc3NTdFOUFFOURERUNGQkFFNDhCOTYwQHBoeC5nYmw+LDxpcDRldnArZ29pMkBlR3JvdXBzLmNvbT4=
layout: email
msgId: 1832
msgSnippet: Hi Myaleee, I wouldn t describe these as tricks .  In fact, the real strength
  of Glosa is its fully isolating nature.  It seems to me that the Centra Glosa
nextInTime: 1833
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1303758129'
prevInTime: 1831
prevInTopic: 1831
profile: ian_niles
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Oa3w1RMffZ3Odz_sXYSVJV9JYm93JTcyokPS6zDbddwAHt9esx4szsKLBJQfkE92l-J87hkKMps6fj6GTLZiMjzVd22L_5LH
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'RE: [glosalist] Re: Aesop 34:  Bovi e Axi'
topicId: 1828
userId: 135517454
---


Hi Myaleee,
 
      I wouldn't describe these as "tricks".  In fact, the r=
eal strength of Glosa is its fully isolating nature.  It seems to me that t=
he "Centra Glosa" vocabulary does a relatively good job of isolating core m=
eanings, which are nuanced by the various grammatical affixes in many langu=
ages.  However, there are many other languages, e.g. Chinese, that rely on =
context rather than inflections to specify the meaning of a word in a sente=
nce.  From what I've seen, people whose native language is completely analy=
tic find Glosa much more natural than languages like Esperanto, Ido, and LF=
N (which eliminates endings but leaves the derviational system intact, a ve=
ry unhappy state of affairs to my mind).  If we're striving for a truly int=
ernational language, I think Glosa comes closer to satisfying the desiderat=
a than anything else out there.
 
-Ian
 


To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
Fr=
om: myaleee@...
Date: Mon, 25 Apr 2011 18:36:41 +0000
Subject: [glosa=
list] Re: Aesop 34: Bovi e Axi


  



Karo ami

When I and other glosa-pe =
learned glosa, the conclusion is : you learn glosa grammar in one day, but =
spend a month to use tricks to make for its flaws(fe=3Dsuffix and pronoun- =
mi auxi fe=3D I help her and my female helper and many others; you must say=
 mi dona un auxi a fe etc; Unlike esperanto, lfn, my glisa,ido, you learn g=
rammar AND use it easily in few days without tricks, because one word =3Don=
e meaning. The blame, alas is on Ron Clark and Wendy the creators, who did =
not notice that! Though unchangeable, glosa has its fans like me, you and o=
thers for its isolating and simple features;-)

saluta

--- In glosalist@ya=
hoogroups.com, Ian Niles <ian_niles@...> wrote:
>
> 
> Gratia, Myaleee. Mi =
akorda de bi tu sugesti. Mi pa muta u translati. Itera, gratia.
> 
> Saluta=
,
> Ian
> 
> 
> 
> To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
> From: myaleee@...
> Date=
: Sat, 23 Apr 2011 05:15:24 +0000
> Subject: [glosalist] Re: Aesop 34: Bovi=
 e Axi
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> karo-pe
> mi sugesti,place(ne ero!!)
> >Longi ru=
ra via, u gravi vagona pa du gene trakto ex grega de bovi .
> (ka longi =3D=
 homo adjek. a bovi)
> alo
> > U gravi vagona pa du gene trakto ex grega de=
 bovi,a longi de rura via.
> 
> no-freqe> rari
> (tu expresi pa es boni ank=
e)
> saluta
> --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Ian Niles <ian_niles@> wrot=
e:
> >
> > 
> > U gravi vagona pa du gene trakto ex grega de bovi longi rur=
a via. Plu axi pa du fo algo-voci. Po tem, plu bovi pa tropi se e dice a pl=
u rota; "ave la. Qo-ka vi tali fo voci? Na akti panto ergo, e na, vice vi, =
debi voci."
> > 
> > Morali es; plu-la, qi este maxi algo, voci maxi no-fre=
qe. 
> > 
> > [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
> >
> 
=
> 
> 
> 
> 
> [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
>



 	=
	 	   		  

[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


