---
authorName: Gary R Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary R Miller &lt;justi.miller@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMDMwOTE1LjIzMjQxMi45OTYuMC5qdXN0aS5taWxsZXJAanVuby5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 193
msgSnippet: 'Panto karo Glosa-pe: Glosa 1000 was never just 1000 words.  The Idea
  of Glosa 1000 also included all taxonomical names of plants and animals, all names
  of '
nextInTime: 194
nextInTopic: 2025
numMessagesInTopic: 14
postDate: '1063686252'
prevInTime: 192
prevInTopic: 76
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: nEp2KA0vAFSQn4TP09a7NGW0EeZGaNEyoqZJNXf-Z98a-lqXEZrADVB2z10-0iHVdOhIZmwQZWHodx-xuuAEDzqfepx5xr19C1b6eQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Glosa 1000
topicId: 76
userId: 123051087
---

Panto karo Glosa-pe:

Glosa 1000 was never just 1000 words.  The Idea of Glosa 1000 also
included all taxonomical names of plants and animals, all names of
elements in the periodic table, all names of countries in their own
language, and _possibly_ any other words derived from Latin and Greek
scientific or technical terms.  This gave Glosa a very rich vocabulary
from the start.

The idea of Glosa 1000 was to keep vocabulary small and regular.  For the
easiest communication, one would have to add to the list _when necessary_
or perhaps when going beyond the realm of simple communication into the
artistic.

I hope that all Glosists will keep Glosa 1000 in mind, not as a
limitation but as an instrument to keep international communication
simple enough for a child to learn.  It should be the sun around which
all planets turn.

* * *

Glosa 1000 pa zero-kron habe simpli 1000 verba.  Un idea de Glosa 1000 pa
inklude: panto taxo-nomi nomina de fito e zoa, panto elementa de periodi
tabula, panto nomina de natio per auto lingua, e _posi_ ali hetero verba;
qi habe origi ex Latina e Helena skience alo tekno nomina.  U-ci pa dona
a Glosa u pluto verba-fa ex proto-kron.

U-la idea de Glosa 1000 pa es tena pusi e ge-krati u verba-fa.  Pro maxi
facili komunika, pe fu debi adi a u-la lista _kron nece_ alo posi kron ki
ultra un area de simpli kominuka ad arti.

Mi spe; panto Glosa-pe fu tena Glosa 1000 in memo ne homo limita sed homo
instrumenta; qi fu tena internatio komunika ta simpli; un infanti posi
logi id.  Id debi es un heli; cirka qi panto planeta du ki.

Saluta,
 _  _
  /.   Gary
#/\#
 ###

________________________________________________________________
The best thing to hit the internet in years - Juno SpeedBand!
Surf the web up to FIVE TIMES FASTER!
Only $14.95/ month - visit www.juno.com to sign up today!

