---
authorName: William Patterson
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: William Patterson &lt;esperantisto@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwOTMwMDkxMDQzLjAwNzViYTBjQHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGI5MGpudmdibjdoNWFrc2RzMWVwZDYzdW9oamVkczhldjNANGF4LmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwOTI2MTUwMzMwLjAwNzRiODE0QHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1PiA8My4wLjEuMzIuMjAwMzA5MjYxNTAzMzAuMDA3NGI4MTRAcGFjaWZpYy5uZXQuYXU+IDwzNnA4bnY4ZmpiYWhsb3NxNmQzbjF2ZWJ0YW9xZm12Z2hkQDRheC5jb20+IDwzLjAuMS4zMi4yMDAzMDkzMDA5MTA0My4wMDc1YmEwY0BwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
layout: email
msgId: 203
msgSnippet: '... I agree completely. And I have also found that Esperanto and Glosa
  have a lot in common. In an interesting but little-known text, L. L. Zamenhof, the'
nextInTime: 204
nextInTopic: 205
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1064937194'
prevInTime: 202
prevInTopic: 202
profile: ailanto
replyTo: LIST
senderId: va4RshuW70iN1BrrU08qDLdLS13UnXUt_i5-NpLe54TB0Q7OLHRaWpJOF8skQQdzAdbH3J2XB5Im3P1QJ9WP69-AxeYhQvEMc-ReKaMYAKVAuQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Glosa and Esperanto - Secret Siblings?
topicId: 197
userId: 155618213
---


On Tue, 30 Sep 2003 09:10:43 +1000, Robin wrote:

> I still think Glosa is=
 suitable as the IAL, but know that
> Esperanto has the organisation.

I ag=
ree completely. And I have also found that Esperanto and
Glosa have a lot i=
n common. In an interesting but little-known
text, L. L. Zamenhof, the crea=
tor of Esperanto, wrote...

# I have arranged the language to allow for the=
 analysis of
# ideas into independent words, so that the entire language,
#=
 instead of consisting of words in various grammatical forms,
# is made up =
exclusively of unchanging [invariant] words.

Sounds like Glosa, no? Then h=
e said...

# But because a linguistic structure of this kind is entirely
# =
foreign to European peoples and it would be difficult for them
# to grow us=
ed to it, I have presented this analytical aspect
# of the language in a co=
mpletely different way, in conformity
# with the spirit of the European lan=
guages, so that anyone
# learning my language with a textbook, without havi=
ng read
# the introduction first (which is quite unnecessary to the
# learn=
er), would not even imagine that the construction of this
# language differ=
ed from his or her mother tongue.

So that explains why Esperanto looks syn=
thetic. Then he went
on to explain a structure that sounds very much like G=
losa, yet
appears to be conventionally European...

# The word fratino, for=
 example, in reality consists of three
# words: frat 'brother', in 'woman',=
 o ('something that is, or
# exists') (=3D that which is a brother-woman =
=3D 'sister'). But the
# textbook explains fratino as follows: 'brother' is=
 frat, and
# it ends in -o because all nouns end in -o in the nominative,
#=
 hence frat'o; to indicate the female form of this same idea,
# we add the =
small word in, hence frat'in'o; and the apostrophes
# are added to show the=
 constituent grammatical parts of the
# word.

# In this way the analytical=
 nature of the language in no way
# embarrasses the student; he does not ev=
en suspect that what
# he calls an ending or a prefix or a suffix is, in fa=
ct, an
# entirely free-standing word, which carries the same meaning
# whet=
her it comes at the beginning or end of another word or
# stands on its own=
; that every word can be used equally as a
# root-word or as a grammatical =
particle.

(In hindsight, in the "modern" world, he perhaps chose an
unfort=
unate example. It's that sort of word which prompts
accusations of sexism i=
n Esperanto. (An anti-female sexism,
which argument I've always found stran=
ge because, as in
many languages, and in life, the female is accorded speci=
al
consideration, while the male is treated like an inanimate
object, neutr=
al, neuter.))

But the root meaning of "frat" is really more like "sibling"=
;
unadorned, "frat o" means brother; decorated with the feminine
particle, =
"frat in o" means sister. Nowadays some Esperantists
use the suffix "ich" t=
o indicate maleness, yielding "frat
ich o" to parallel "frat in o". The imp=
ortant point is that
although Esperanto looks synthetic, it can easily be t=
reated
analytically, like Glosa. I've experimented a bit with an
analytical=
 Esperanto, that is, an Esperanto vocabulary with
a Glosa grammar:

Esperan=
to             Analytical Esperanto       Glosa
---------             -----=
---------------       -----
La frato alvenis.     La ich-frat-o is al-ven. =
  U an-sibi pa ariva.
La fratino alvenis.   La in-frat-o is al-ven.    U fe=
-sibi pa ariva.

Like Glosa, past, present, future:

Analytical Esperanto  =
     Glosa
--------------------       -----
La ich-frat-o is al-ven.   U an=
-sibi pa ariva.
La ich-frat-o as al-ven.   U an-sibi nu ariva.
La ich-frat-=
o os al-ven.   U an-sibi fu ariva.

Substitution of Esperanto roots for Glo=
sa roots generally yields
a pretty good Analytical Esperanto (if the Glosa =
writer avoids
words like "adelfa" and "sorori"!), and the reverse is also t=
rue
(if the Esperanto writer avoids neologistic synonyms).

Saluta!
Bill


=
-- 
William W. Patterson
http://ttt.kafejo.com
http://ttt.komputado.com
Kio=
m da homoj, tiom da gustoj.

