---
authorName: Ian Niles
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Ian Niles &lt;ian_niles@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGo2aHQ0ZStyZDY3QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENPTDEwNS1XMTk5MkY0RDRDRkQ2MDMwODg3NDlEMzhCRjgwQHBoeC5nYmw+
headers.referencesHeader: PGo2aHNxMCtvYTZmQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPiw8ajZodDRlK3JkNjdAZUdyb3Vwcy5jb20+
layout: email
msgId: 2091
msgSnippet: Hi Xavi,      From what I ve seen, the words marked with an X are all
  variants of words that are allowed (at least in mega Glosa).  As I understand it,
  some
nextInTime: 2092
nextInTopic: 2093
numMessagesInTopic: 14
postDate: '1317832383'
prevInTime: 2090
prevInTopic: 2090
profile: ian_niles
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Hi18JrZNtKw--d-aZpfWWUuN1C3wl6Jmz0iEWf9HXeqoDNhA_JGHd4AFd0XyLGYzBTFaWMGw-aT3yJ4SUvFBRcKK7yN5GPvj
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'RE: [glosalist] Re: Glosa 1000'
topicId: 76
userId: 135517454
---


Hi Xavi,      From what I've seen, the words marked with an "X" are all va=
riants of words that are allowed (at least in mega Glosa).  As I understand=
 it, some variants of essentially the same word were included in some Glosa=
 lists, and other variants of the same word were included in other Glosa li=
sts.  When the various lists were combined into a single dictionary (viz. t=
he GID), obviously one variant had to be selected as the official version o=
f the word and the others had to be deprecated.  I think you would agree th=
at having more than one variant of the same word for many words in a langua=
ge that is proposed as an international auxiliary language defeats the purp=
ose of having an international auxiliary language.        Another point tha=
t should be made, I think, is that there shouldn't be anything sacrosanct a=
bout the first version of an artificial language.  In fact, I think the opp=
osite is true.  Artificial languages get tested in practice, just like soft=
ware and any other engineering aritifact.  The parts that work well are ret=
ained.  The parts that don't work well or don't work at all should be rejec=
ted or modified.  As Jespersen pointed out, in the end an international aux=
iliary language rests solely on science and reason. -Ian
 To: glosalist@yah=
oogroups.com
From: xabadiar@...
Date: Wed, 5 Oct 2011 15:29:18 +0000
=
Subject: [glosalist] Re: Glosa 1000


















 



  


    
      =

      
      Ave, karo Myalee,



It seems obvious to me that no-one shoul=
d change the original Glosa words in favour of substitutes supposedly bette=
r. I wonder why they had to substitute "ami" against "amika", "apis" agains=
t "api", etc. But my dear friend, they actually CAN do it, they have ALREAD=
Y done it, by giving an "X" mark to many words that "should be avoided", ev=
en to essential words from any "Glosa-1000 list". (GID, page 4). In my opin=
ion, the GID might be re-organized: the "Glosa Centra" list should be the o=
nly place where the X-marked words might be excluded. And the "Glosa Mega" =
list should be the integral list with both the original words and the recen=
t and preferred words. No need to mark words that "should be avoided". The =
words outside the "Glosa Centra" list would be avoided "de facto"; the word=
s inside the "Glosa Centra" would be preferred "de facto".



Finally, an "=
English-Glosa Centra" list is in my opinion far more necessary than an "Eng=
lish-Glosa Mega" list.



Saluta, Xavi.



--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com=
, "myaleee n" <myaleee@> wrote:

> >

> > ave karo Abadia!

> > saluta

> >=
 

> > 1- glosa is very great and unique

> > 2- but wendy and Ron incomple=
tely made diction.: latin  and greek words for each word!!

> > 3- NO-ONE c=
an change  x-sign word or other defects!

> > 4- my opinion: use gid(big), =
nobody will blame you, but in beginning

> > of article tell strange words =
: bato=3D deep  etc

> > 5- esperanto, ido, lfn , glosa all have defects un=
changeable!!!We must tolerate them or leave the language :-(

> > 6- I   ma=
de excellent version of glosa> glisa, using only latin words, removing defe=
cts and I gladly welcome suggestions.

> > 

> > saluta 

> > 

> > --- In =
glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Xavier Abadia" <xabadiar@> wrote:

> > >

> > >=
 Ave, Gary Miller e pan-pe.

> > > Vi ski; u diktionaria "GID" habe u signi=
 "X" pro plu verba qi "debi gene evita" ("should be avoided", p. 4). Speci:=
 amika, api, asini, et cetera.

> > > Mi amo Interglossa, so mi prefere plu=
 Glosa verba qi es homo plu Interglosa verba, so: amika, api, asini, vice: =
ami, apis, asinus.

> > > Qo-ka plu-ci verba "debi gene evita"? GID no expl=
ika id...

> > > U-ci qestio es speciali dificile, ka plu verba freqe habe =
u signi "1" e u signi "X" iso-tem! (Plu verba ko signi "1" apare in uno ex =
oligo Glosa-1000-lista).

> > > Qo-pe pa decide; plu-ci verba debi gene evi=
ta? Qo-ka? Qe Ronald Clark e Wendy Ashby pa akorda?

> > > Mi es ge-konfusi=
 de GID.

> > > 

> > > Saluta, Xavi.

> > > 

> > > --- In glosalist@yahoo=
groups.com, Gary Miller <gmillernd@> wrote:

> > > >

> > > > Xavi--

> > >=
 > 

> > > > Plu verba ko mikro numera 1 in GID pa es origi "Glosa 1000."  =
Plu

> > > > Glosa krea-pe, cefa nu Wendy Ashby, du face ma sistema u-ci ve=
rba-fa;

> > > > seqe-co nu es u neo nomina "Centra Glosa" e u sema ++.  U =
turba pa es;

> > > > Glosa 1000 pa faktu habe ma poli de 1000 verba, cefa =
kausa plu itera

> > > > de Latino e Helena verba in id; anti-co id veri ne=
ce u ma boni

> > > > sistema.  "Centra Glosa" nu habe proxi 1300 verba-- f=
aktu, u ma mikro

> > > > qantita de origi Glosa 1000.  (Un homi-face lingu=
a Lojban plus habe

> > > > proxi 1300 verba.)

> > > > 

> > > > U bibli 1=
8 GRADU AD EURO-GLOSA dice; "Na itera nece sti importa; Glosa

> > > > 1000=
 facili pote ergo de ali speci de tema, klude plu forti tekno

> > > > tema=
, posi ko no-freqe uti de Mega Glosa."  Mi pa detekti sura veri

> > > > u-=
ci frase, tem uti Centra Glosa.

> > > > 

> > > > Plus mi pa gene hedo de =
tu pedi-bola kanta.  Anti-co in Nord Dakota na

> > > > universita sporta g=
rega es "plu Bisona."

> > > > 

> > > > Saluta,

> > > > _ _

> > > > /.

=
> > > > /\   Gary

> > > > #

> > > >

> > >

> >

>





    
     

    
=
    






   		 	   		  

[Non-text portions of this message have been rem=
oved]


