---
authorName: Ian Niles
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Ian Niles &lt;ian_niles@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGo2aWJrOSs0dXA2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENPTDEwNS1XNTgyODAzQTBCRDY2NUJDRjU2OTI3RjhCRjgwQHBoeC5nYmw+
headers.referencesHeader: PENPTDEwNS1XMTk5MkY0RDRDRkQ2MDMwODg3NDlEMzhCRjgwQHBoeC5nYmw+LDxqNmliazkrNHVwNkBlR3JvdXBzLmNvbT4=
layout: email
msgId: 2094
msgSnippet: Hi Xavi,      I agree that it would be preferable if there were a systematic
  way of deriving Glosa words from Latin/Greek.  From what I understand, the authors
nextInTime: 2095
nextInTopic: 2101
numMessagesInTopic: 14
postDate: '1317843857'
prevInTime: 2093
prevInTopic: 2093
profile: ian_niles
replyTo: LIST
senderId: gZIOSL2cfOyD9u-RDzwpK0iNvT701QgM0tv6WWc3VdSXODJt3qGnojKrsdXmXpOvPDvIvLI60ahKSqYdxqd6pld-3jrtTAqt
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'RE: [glosalist] Re: Glosa 1000'
topicId: 76
userId: 135517454
---


Hi Xavi,      I agree that it would be preferable if there were a systemat=
ic way of deriving Glosa words from Latin/Greek.  From what I understand, t=
he authors of Glosa tried to derive Glosa words from the English cognates r=
ather than directly from the classical roots.  There are some notes on Glos=
a word derivation on the Glosa web site that you might find interesting:  h=
ttp://www.glosa.org/gid/gwds.htm. -Ian
 To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
From:=
 xabadiar@...
Date: Wed, 5 Oct 2011 19:36:41 +0000
Subject: [glosalis=
t] Re: Glosa 1000


















 



  


    
      
      
      Hi, =
Ian.

I'm not so sure that the latest variant of a Glosa word works better =
than the oldest variant. I've seen that the oldest variants of Glosa may be=
 often predicted according to its etymology, in the same way as the words o=
f Interglossa, because the morphologic arrangement of Interglossa was mainl=
y preserved: from Latin =96a =96ae, =96us =96i, =96um =96i, =96is =96is, wo=
rds were taken with endings =96a, =96i, =96a, =96i, respectively. Glosa was=
 born as just an orthographical reform of Interglossa, as far as I know.

S=
o, I like the original words of Glosa not because they are the original and=
 "sacrosanct" variants, but because they seem to me more predictable and si=
mple than the latest variants. And this make them more friendly to me.



O=
nce I've said this, I now repeat that I would accept the fact that most aut=
hors of GID have given preference to the latest variants, they might have g=
ood reasons I ignore. I only reject the unfair method of marking an "X" to =
the oldest variants as if they were completely obsolete and useless. Perhap=
s a fairer method would be to let the oldest variants out of the "Centra Gl=
osa" list, while letting them stay at the "Mega Glosa" list with no kind of=
 negative mark.



Saluta, Xavi.



--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Ian N=
iles <ian_niles@...> wrote:

>

> 

> Hi Xavi,      From what I've seen, th=
e words marked with an "X" are all variants of words that are allowed (at l=
east in mega Glosa).  As I understand it, some variants of essentially the =
same word were included in some Glosa lists, and other variants of the same=
 word were included in other Glosa lists.  When the various lists were comb=
ined into a single dictionary (viz. the GID), obviously one variant had to =
be selected as the official version of the word and the others had to be de=
precated.  I think you would agree that having more than one variant of the=
 same word for many words in a language that is proposed as an internationa=
l auxiliary language defeats the purpose of having an international auxilia=
ry language.        Another point that should be made, I think, is that the=
re shouldn't be anything sacrosanct about the first version of an artificia=
l language.  In fact, I think the opposite is true.  Artificial languages g=
et tested in practice, just like software and any other engineering aritifa=
ct.  The parts that work well are retained.  The parts that don't work well=
 or don't work at all should be rejected or modified.  As Jespersen pointed=
 out, in the end an international auxiliary language rests solely on scienc=
e and reason. -Ian

>  To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com

> From: xabadiar@...
=

> Date: Wed, 5 Oct 2011 15:29:18 +0000

> Subject: [glosalist] Re: Glosa 1=
000

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> =


>  

> 

> 

> 

>   

> 

> 

>     

>       

>       

>       Ave, k=
aro Myalee,

> 

> 

> 

> It seems obvious to me that no-one should change=
 the original Glosa words in favour of substitutes supposedly better. I won=
der why they had to substitute "ami" against "amika", "apis" against "api",=
 etc. But my dear friend, they actually CAN do it, they have ALREADY done i=
t, by giving an "X" mark to many words that "should be avoided", even to es=
sential words from any "Glosa-1000 list". (GID, page 4). In my opinion, the=
 GID might be re-organized: the "Glosa Centra" list should be the only plac=
e where the X-marked words might be excluded. And the "Glosa Mega" list sho=
uld be the integral list with both the original words and the recent and pr=
eferred words. No need to mark words that "should be avoided". The words ou=
tside the "Glosa Centra" list would be avoided "de facto"; the words inside=
 the "Glosa Centra" would be preferred "de facto".

> 

> 

> 

> Finally, =
an "English-Glosa Centra" list is in my opinion far more necessary than an =
"English-Glosa Mega" list.

> 

> 

> 

> Saluta, Xavi.

> 

> 

> 

> --- =
In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "myaleee n" <myaleee@> wrote:

> 

> > >

> 
=

> > > ave karo Abadia!

> 

> > > saluta

> 

> > > 

> 

> > > 1- glosa i=
s very great and unique

> 

> > > 2- but wendy and Ron incompletely made d=
iction.: latin  and greek words for each word!!

> 

> > > 3- NO-ONE can ch=
ange  x-sign word or other defects!

> 

> > > 4- my opinion: use gid(big),=
 nobody will blame you, but in beginning

> 

> > > of article tell strange=
 words : bato=3D deep  etc

> 

> > > 5- esperanto, ido, lfn , glosa all ha=
ve defects unchangeable!!!We must tolerate them or leave the language :-(

=
> 

> > > 6- I   made excellent version of glosa> glisa, using only latin w=
ords, removing defects and I gladly welcome suggestions.

> 

> > > 

> 

>=
 > > saluta 

> 

> > > 

> 

> > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Xavi=
er Abadia" <xabadiar@> wrote:

> 

> > > >

> 

> > > > Ave, Gary Miller e =
pan-pe.

> 

> > > > Vi ski; u diktionaria "GID" habe u signi "X" pro plu v=
erba qi "debi gene evita" ("should be avoided", p. 4). Speci: amika, api, a=
sini, et cetera.

> 

> > > > Mi amo Interglossa, so mi prefere plu Glosa v=
erba qi es homo plu Interglosa verba, so: amika, api, asini, vice: ami, api=
s, asinus.

> 

> > > > Qo-ka plu-ci verba "debi gene evita"? GID no explik=
a id...

> 

> > > > U-ci qestio es speciali dificile, ka plu verba freqe h=
abe u signi "1" e u signi "X" iso-tem! (Plu verba ko signi "1" apare in uno=
 ex oligo Glosa-1000-lista).

> 

> > > > Qo-pe pa decide; plu-ci verba deb=
i gene evita? Qo-ka? Qe Ronald Clark e Wendy Ashby pa akorda?

> 

> > > > =
Mi es ge-konfusi de GID.

> 

> > > > 

> 

> > > > Saluta, Xavi.

> 

> > =
> > 

> 

> > > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Gary Miller <gmillernd@=
> wrote:

> 

> > > > >

> 

> > > > > Xavi--

> 

> > > > > 

> 

> > > > =
> Plu verba ko mikro numera 1 in GID pa es origi "Glosa 1000."  Plu

> 

> =
> > > > Glosa krea-pe, cefa nu Wendy Ashby, du face ma sistema u-ci verba-f=
a;

> 

> > > > > seqe-co nu es u neo nomina "Centra Glosa" e u sema ++.  U=
 turba pa es;

> 

> > > > > Glosa 1000 pa faktu habe ma poli de 1000 verba=
, cefa kausa plu itera

> 

> > > > > de Latino e Helena verba in id; anti-=
co id veri nece u ma boni

> 

> > > > > sistema.  "Centra Glosa" nu habe p=
roxi 1300 verba-- faktu, u ma mikro

> 

> > > > > qantita de origi Glosa 1=
000.  (Un homi-face lingua Lojban plus habe

> 

> > > > > proxi 1300 verba=
.)

> 

> > > > > 

> 

> > > > > U bibli 18 GRADU AD EURO-GLOSA dice; "Na =
itera nece sti importa; Glosa

> 

> > > > > 1000 facili pote ergo de ali s=
peci de tema, klude plu forti tekno

> 

> > > > > tema, posi ko no-freqe u=
ti de Mega Glosa."  Mi pa detekti sura veri

> 

> > > > > u-ci frase, tem =
uti Centra Glosa.

> 

> > > > > 

> 

> > > > > Plus mi pa gene hedo de tu=
 pedi-bola kanta.  Anti-co in Nord Dakota na

> 

> > > > > universita spor=
ta grega es "plu Bisona."

> 

> > > > > 

> 

> > > > > Saluta,

> 

> > >=
 > > _ _

> 

> > > > > /.

> 

> > > > > /\   Gary

> 

> > > > > #

> 

>=
 > > > >

> 

> > > >

> 

> > >

> 

> >

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

>     

>   =
   

> 

>     

>     

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

>    		 	   		  

> 

> [N=
on-text portions of this message have been removed]

>





    
     

   =
 
    






   		 	   		  

[Non-text portions of this message have been r=
emoved]


