---
authorName: Xavier Abadia
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Xavier Abadia&quot; &lt;xabadiar@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENPTDEwNS1XNTgyODAzQTBCRDY2NUJDRjU2OTI3RjhCRjgwQHBoeC5nYmw+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGo2cGFrZCs2cjQ2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2101
msgSnippet: 'Saluta Ian, mi plu reakti post tu plu reakti : [Ian] Hi Xavi, I agree
  that it would be preferable if THERE WERE a systematic way of deriving Glosa words
  from'
nextInTime: 2102
nextInTopic: 2102
numMessagesInTopic: 14
postDate: '1318071757'
prevInTime: 2100
prevInTopic: 2094
profile: xabadiar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: q1R_jak8nf-kU8JOd6D7BpLiH_yvVSSIB4nItYZvS3U6zYSWjj04Z17UuEPB9rhWVeVGXZfl1yLLW4wC2jCW-bRmmN_rQ5byLU7C
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Glosa 1000'
topicId: 76
userId: 472762895
---




Saluta Ian, mi plu reakti post tu plu reakti :

[Ian] Hi Xavi, I agree t=
hat it would be preferable if THERE WERE a systematic way of deriving Glosa=
 words from Latin/Greek.

[Xavi] Actually THERE IS a systematic way of deri=
ving words from Latin/Greek at the original Glosa, inherited from Interglos=
sa in the main. 
Latin:
-a < -a -ae ; 
-i < -us -i ; 
-a < -um -i ; 
-i < -=
is -is ; 
-io < -io -ionis ; 
-u < -us =96us.
Greek:
-a < -a, -es ("glosa")=
; 
-a < -a, -atos ("soma"); 
-o < -os -ou ("bio"); 
-a < -on, -ou ("zoa").
=
Etc.

[Ian] From what I understand, the authors of Glosa tried to derive Gl=
osa words from the English cognates rather than directly from the classical=
 roots.

[Xavi] I don't think so. Of course there may be exceptions to the =
systematic rules above, for example to take -us from -us -i. But anyway, th=
e exceptions remain few, I think.

[Ian] There are some notes on Glosa word=
 derivation on the Glosa web site that you might find interesting: http://w=
ww.glosa.org/gid/gwds.htm

[Xavi] The doubts I have, find no answers in thi=
s website. The initial reform by Ron Clark is clear to me: an orthographica=
l reform, the suppression of the compulsory final =96e of verbs and the com=
pulsory final =96o of abstract qualities.
As for the more recent reforms, h=
ere is where my confusion comes: what further reforms were made?, by who?, =
when?, by which method? If I find the answers, so much the better. If not, =
nevermind... I do believe that an essential lexicon like "Glossa 1000" migh=
t be sufficient.

Xavi.

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Ian Niles <ian_n=
iles@...> wrote:
>
> 
> Hi Xavi,      I agree that it would be preferable i=
f there were a systematic way of deriving Glosa words from Latin/Greek.  Fr=
om what I understand, the authors of Glosa tried to derive Glosa words from=
 the English cognates rather than directly from the classical roots.  There=
 are some notes on Glosa word derivation on the Glosa web site that you mig=
ht find interesting:  http://www.glosa.org/gid/gwds.htm. -Ian
>  To: glosal=
ist@yahoogroups.com
> From: xabadiar@...
> Date: Wed, 5 Oct 2011 19:36:41 +=
0000
> Subject: [glosalist] Re: Glosa 1000
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> =

> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  
> 
> 
> 
>   
> 
> 
>     
>       
>       
>   =
    Hi, Ian.
> 
> I'm not so sure that the latest variant of a Glosa word w=
orks better than the oldest variant. I've seen that the oldest variants of =
Glosa may be often predicted according to its etymology, in the same way as=
 the words of Interglossa, because the morphologic arrangement of Interglos=
sa was mainly preserved: from Latin =96a =96ae, =96us =96i, =96um =96i, =96=
is =96is, words were taken with endings =96a, =96i, =96a, =96i, respectivel=
y. Glosa was born as just an orthographical reform of Interglossa, as far a=
s I know.
> 
> So, I like the original words of Glosa not because they are =
the original and "sacrosanct" variants, but because they seem to me more pr=
edictable and simple than the latest variants. And this make them more frie=
ndly to me.
> 
> 
> 
> Once I've said this, I now repeat that I would accep=
t the fact that most authors of GID have given preference to the latest var=
iants, they might have good reasons I ignore. I only reject the unfair meth=
od of marking an "X" to the oldest variants as if they were completely obso=
lete and useless. Perhaps a fairer method would be to let the oldest varian=
ts out of the "Centra Glosa" list, while letting them stay at the "Mega Glo=
sa" list with no kind of negative mark.
> 
> 
> 
> Saluta, Xavi.
> 
> 
> 
>=
 --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Ian Niles <ian_niles@> wrote:
> 
> >
> 
=
> > 
> 
> > Hi Xavi,      From what I've seen, the words marked with an "X"=
 are all variants of words that are allowed (at least in mega Glosa).  As I=
 understand it, some variants of essentially the same word were included in=
 some Glosa lists, and other variants of the same word were included in oth=
er Glosa lists.  When the various lists were combined into a single diction=
ary (viz. the GID), obviously one variant had to be selected as the officia=
l version of the word and the others had to be deprecated.  I think you wou=
ld agree that having more than one variant of the same word for many words =
in a language that is proposed as an international auxiliary language defea=
ts the purpose of having an international auxiliary language.        Anothe=
r point that should be made, I think, is that there shouldn't be anything s=
acrosanct about the first version of an artificial language.  In fact, I th=
ink the opposite is true.  Artificial languages get tested in practice, jus=
t like software and any other engineering aritifact.  The parts that work w=
ell are retained.  The parts that don't work well or don't work at all shou=
ld be rejected or modified.  As Jespersen pointed out, in the end an intern=
ational auxiliary language rests solely on science and reason. -Ian
> 
> > =
 To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
> 
> > From: xabadiar@
> 
> > Date: Wed, 5 O=
ct 2011 15:29:18 +0000
> 
> > Subject: [glosalist] Re: Glosa 1000
> 
> > 
>=
 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
>=
 > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> >  
> 
> >=
 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> >   
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> >     
> 
> >       
> 
> =
>       
> 
> >       Ave, karo Myalee,
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > It s=
eems obvious to me that no-one should change the original Glosa words in fa=
vour of substitutes supposedly better. I wonder why they had to substitute =
"ami" against "amika", "apis" against "api", etc. But my dear friend, they =
actually CAN do it, they have ALREADY done it, by giving an "X" mark to man=
y words that "should be avoided", even to essential words from any "Glosa-1=
000 list". (GID, page 4). In my opinion, the GID might be re-organized: the=
 "Glosa Centra" list should be the only place where the X-marked words migh=
t be excluded. And the "Glosa Mega" list should be the integral list with b=
oth the original words and the recent and preferred words. No need to mark =
words that "should be avoided". The words outside the "Glosa Centra" list w=
ould be avoided "de facto"; the words inside the "Glosa Centra" would be pr=
eferred "de facto".
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > Finally, an "English-Glo=
sa Centra" list is in my opinion far more necessary than an "English-Glosa =
Mega" list.
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > Saluta, Xavi.
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> =

> > 
> 
> > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "myaleee n" <myaleee@> wrote=
:
> 
> > 
> 
> > > >
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > ave karo Abadia!
> 
> > 
> 
> > > >=
 saluta
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > 1- glosa is very great and u=
nique
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > 2- but wendy and Ron incompletely made diction.: l=
atin  and greek words for each word!!
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > 3- NO-ONE can chan=
ge  x-sign word or other defects!
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > 4- my opinion: use gid=
(big), nobody will blame you, but in beginning
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > of articl=
e tell strange words : bato=3D deep  etc
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > 5- esperanto, i=
do, lfn , glosa all have defects unchangeable!!!We must tolerate them or le=
ave the language :-(
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > 6- I   made excellent version of gl=
osa> glisa, using only latin words, removing defects and I gladly welcome s=
uggestions.
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > saluta 
> 
> > 
> 
> > >=
 > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Xavier Abadia" <x=
abadiar@> wrote:
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > >
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > Ave, Gary Miller=
 e pan-pe.
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > Vi ski; u diktionaria "GID" habe u signi "X=
" pro plu verba qi "debi gene evita" ("should be avoided", p. 4). Speci: am=
ika, api, asini, et cetera.
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > Mi amo Interglossa, so mi =
prefere plu Glosa verba qi es homo plu Interglosa verba, so: amika, api, as=
ini, vice: ami, apis, asinus.
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > Qo-ka plu-ci verba "debi=
 gene evita"? GID no explika id...
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > U-ci qestio es spec=
iali dificile, ka plu verba freqe habe u signi "1" e u signi "X" iso-tem! (=
Plu verba ko signi "1" apare in uno ex oligo Glosa-1000-lista).
> 
> > 
> 
=
> > > > > Qo-pe pa decide; plu-ci verba debi gene evita? Qo-ka? Qe Ronald C=
lark e Wendy Ashby pa akorda?
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > Mi es ge-konfusi de GID.=

> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > Saluta, Xavi.
> 
> > 
> 
> > > =
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Gary Miller <gm=
illernd@> wrote:
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > >
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > Xavi--
> 
> =
> 
> 
> > > > > > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > Plu verba ko mikro numera 1 in GI=
D pa es origi "Glosa 1000."  Plu
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > Glosa krea-pe, cefa=
 nu Wendy Ashby, du face ma sistema u-ci verba-fa;
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > s=
eqe-co nu es u neo nomina "Centra Glosa" e u sema ++.  U turba pa es;
> 
> =
> 
> 
> > > > > > Glosa 1000 pa faktu habe ma poli de 1000 verba, cefa kaus=
a plu itera
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > de Latino e Helena verba in id; anti-co =
id veri nece u ma boni
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > sistema.  "Centra Glosa" nu h=
abe proxi 1300 verba-- faktu, u ma mikro
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > qantita de =
origi Glosa 1000.  (Un homi-face lingua Lojban plus habe
> 
> > 
> 
> > > >=
 > > proxi 1300 verba.)
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > U bi=
bli 18 GRADU AD EURO-GLOSA dice; "Na itera nece sti importa; Glosa
> 
> > 
=
> 
> > > > > > 1000 facili pote ergo de ali speci de tema, klude plu forti =
tekno
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > tema, posi ko no-freqe uti de Mega Glosa."  Mi=
 pa detekti sura veri
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > u-ci frase, tem uti Centra Glo=
sa.
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > Plus mi pa gene hedo de =
tu pedi-bola kanta.  Anti-co in Nord Dakota na
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > unive=
rsita sporta grega es "plu Bisona."
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > =
> > > > Saluta,
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > _ _
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > /.
> 
> >=
 
> 
> > > > > > /\   Gary
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > > #
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > > >
=
> 
> > 
> 
> > > > >
> 
> > 
> 
> > > >
> 
> > 
> 
> > >
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> =

> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> >     
> 
> >      
> 
> > 
> 
> >     
> 
> >  =
   
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> >    		 	   		  
>=
 
> > 
> 
> > [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
> 
> >
=
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
>     
>      
> 
>     
>     
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
>    		 	 =
  		  
> 
> [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
>



