---
authorName: Xavier Abadia
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Xavier Abadia&quot; &lt;xabadiar@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGo2cGFrZCs2cjQ2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGo2cmpmZStxdXN0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2102
msgSnippet: Sorry, I meant Glosa 1000 , not Glossa 1000 .
nextInTime: 2103
nextInTopic: 2117
numMessagesInTopic: 14
postDate: '1318146350'
prevInTime: 2101
prevInTopic: 2101
profile: xabadiar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: oDNjegj4gqYJx6hR_R-xuOCFr9VHFlWQwQYt-OEa8Ku9m1YyyDpV2X4Ci9tgfS5MuciEF_w7LtHnbRqRDmW9sTI3w0nJVXDK6Pid
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Glosa 1000'
topicId: 76
userId: 472762895
---

Sorry, I meant "Glosa 1000", not "Glossa 1000".

--- In glosalist@yahoogrou=
ps.com, "Xavier Abadia" <xabadiar@...> wrote:
>
> 
> 
> 
> Saluta Ian, mi p=
lu reakti post tu plu reakti :
> 
> [Ian] Hi Xavi, I agree that it would be=
 preferable if THERE WERE a systematic way of deriving Glosa words from Lat=
in/Greek.
> 
> [Xavi] Actually THERE IS a systematic way of deriving words =
from Latin/Greek at the original Glosa, inherited from Interglossa in the m=
ain. 
> Latin:
> -a < -a -ae ; 
> -i < -us -i ; 
> -a < -um -i ; 
> -i < -i=
s -is ; 
> -io < -io -ionis ; 
> -u < -us =96us.
> Greek:
> -a < -a, -es ("=
glosa"); 
> -a < -a, -atos ("soma"); 
> -o < -os -ou ("bio"); 
> -a < -on, =
-ou ("zoa").
> Etc.
> 
> [Ian] From what I understand, the authors of Glosa=
 tried to derive Glosa words from the English cognates rather than directly=
 from the classical roots.
> 
> [Xavi] I don't think so. Of course there ma=
y be exceptions to the systematic rules above, for example to take -us from=
 -us -i. But anyway, the exceptions remain few, I think.
> 
> [Ian] There a=
re some notes on Glosa word derivation on the Glosa web site that you might=
 find interesting: http://www.glosa.org/gid/gwds.htm
> 
> [Xavi] The doubts=
 I have, find no answers in this website. The initial reform by Ron Clark i=
s clear to me: an orthographical reform, the suppression of the compulsory =
final =96e of verbs and the compulsory final =96o of abstract qualities.
> =
As for the more recent reforms, here is where my confusion comes: what furt=
her reforms were made?, by who?, when?, by which method? If I find the answ=
ers, so much the better. If not, nevermind... I do believe that an essentia=
l lexicon like "Glossa 1000" might be sufficient.
> 
> Xavi.
> 
> --- In gl=
osalist@yahoogroups.com, Ian Niles <ian_niles@> wrote:
> >
> > 
> > Hi Xavi=
,      I agree that it would be preferable if there were a systematic way o=
f deriving Glosa words from Latin/Greek.  From what I understand, the autho=
rs of Glosa tried to derive Glosa words from the English cognates rather th=
an directly from the classical roots.  There are some notes on Glosa word d=
erivation on the Glosa web site that you might find interesting:  http://ww=
w.glosa.org/gid/gwds.htm. -Ian
> >  To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
> > From:=
 xabadiar@
> > Date: Wed, 5 Oct 2011 19:36:41 +0000
> > Subject: [glosalist=
] Re: Glosa 1000
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >=
 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >  
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >   
> > 
> > 
> >  =
   
> >       
> >       
> >       Hi, Ian.
> > 
> > I'm not so sure that =
the latest variant of a Glosa word works better than the oldest variant. I'=
ve seen that the oldest variants of Glosa may be often predicted according =
to its etymology, in the same way as the words of Interglossa, because the =
morphologic arrangement of Interglossa was mainly preserved: from Latin =96=
a =96ae, =96us =96i, =96um =96i, =96is =96is, words were taken with endings=
 =96a, =96i, =96a, =96i, respectively. Glosa was born as just an orthograph=
ical reform of Interglossa, as far as I know.
> > 
> > So, I like the origi=
nal words of Glosa not because they are the original and "sacrosanct" varia=
nts, but because they seem to me more predictable and simple than the lates=
t variants. And this make them more friendly to me.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Once=
 I've said this, I now repeat that I would accept the fact that most author=
s of GID have given preference to the latest variants, they might have good=
 reasons I ignore. I only reject the unfair method of marking an "X" to the=
 oldest variants as if they were completely obsolete and useless. Perhaps a=
 fairer method would be to let the oldest variants out of the "Centra Glosa=
" list, while letting them stay at the "Mega Glosa" list with no kind of ne=
gative mark.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > Saluta, Xavi.
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > --- In glo=
salist@yahoogroups.com, Ian Niles <ian_niles@> wrote:
> > 
> > >
> > 
> > >=
 
> > 
> > > Hi Xavi,      From what I've seen, the words marked with an "X=
" are all variants of words that are allowed (at least in mega Glosa).  As =
I understand it, some variants of essentially the same word were included i=
n some Glosa lists, and other variants of the same word were included in ot=
her Glosa lists.  When the various lists were combined into a single dictio=
nary (viz. the GID), obviously one variant had to be selected as the offici=
al version of the word and the others had to be deprecated.  I think you wo=
uld agree that having more than one variant of the same word for many words=
 in a language that is proposed as an international auxiliary language defe=
ats the purpose of having an international auxiliary language.        Anoth=
er point that should be made, I think, is that there shouldn't be anything =
sacrosanct about the first version of an artificial language.  In fact, I t=
hink the opposite is true.  Artificial languages get tested in practice, ju=
st like software and any other engineering aritifact.  The parts that work =
well are retained.  The parts that don't work well or don't work at all sho=
uld be rejected or modified.  As Jespersen pointed out, in the end an inter=
national auxiliary language rests solely on science and reason. -Ian
> > 
>=
 > >  To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
> > 
> > > From: xabadiar@
> > 
> > > D=
ate: Wed, 5 Oct 2011 15:29:18 +0000
> > 
> > > Subject: [glosalist] Re: Glo=
sa 1000
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> =
> > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > >=
 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
>=
 > 
> > >  
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > >   
> > 
> > > 
>=
 > 
> > > 
> > 
> > >     
> > 
> > >       
> > 
> > >       
> > 
> > >  =
     Ave, karo Myalee,
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > It se=
ems obvious to me that no-one should change the original Glosa words in fav=
our of substitutes supposedly better. I wonder why they had to substitute "=
ami" against "amika", "apis" against "api", etc. But my dear friend, they a=
ctually CAN do it, they have ALREADY done it, by giving an "X" mark to many=
 words that "should be avoided", even to essential words from any "Glosa-10=
00 list". (GID, page 4). In my opinion, the GID might be re-organized: the =
"Glosa Centra" list should be the only place where the X-marked words might=
 be excluded. And the "Glosa Mega" list should be the integral list with bo=
th the original words and the recent and preferred words. No need to mark w=
ords that "should be avoided". The words outside the "Glosa Centra" list wo=
uld be avoided "de facto"; the words inside the "Glosa Centra" would be pre=
ferred "de facto".
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > Finally, =
an "English-Glosa Centra" list is in my opinion far more necessary than an =
"English-Glosa Mega" list.
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > S=
aluta, Xavi.
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > --- In glosalis=
t@yahoogroups.com, "myaleee n" <myaleee@> wrote:
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > >=

> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > ave karo Abadia!
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > sal=
uta
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > 1- glosa is very=
 great and unique
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > 2- but wendy and Ron incomplet=
ely made diction.: latin  and greek words for each word!!
> > 
> > > 
> > 
=
> > > > > 3- NO-ONE can change  x-sign word or other defects!
> > 
> > > 
>=
 > 
> > > > > 4- my opinion: use gid(big), nobody will blame you, but in be=
ginning
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > of article tell strange words : bato=3D =
deep  etc
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > 5- esperanto, ido, lfn , glosa all hav=
e defects unchangeable!!!We must tolerate them or leave the language :-(
> =
> 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > 6- I   made excellent version of glosa> glisa, usi=
ng only latin words, removing defects and I gladly welcome suggestions.
> >=
 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > saluta 
> > 
> > > 
> >=
 
> > > > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "=
Xavier Abadia" <xabadiar@> wrote:
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > >
> > 
> > > 
=
> > 
> > > > > > Ave, Gary Miller e pan-pe.
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > Vi=
 ski; u diktionaria "GID" habe u signi "X" pro plu verba qi "debi gene evit=
a" ("should be avoided", p. 4). Speci: amika, api, asini, et cetera.
> > 
>=
 > > 
> > 
> > > > > > Mi amo Interglossa, so mi prefere plu Glosa verba qi=
 es homo plu Interglosa verba, so: amika, api, asini, vice: ami, apis, asin=
us.
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > Qo-ka plu-ci verba "debi gene evita"? GID =
no explika id...
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > U-ci qestio es speciali dific=
ile, ka plu verba freqe habe u signi "1" e u signi "X" iso-tem! (Plu verba =
ko signi "1" apare in uno ex oligo Glosa-1000-lista).
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > =
> > > > Qo-pe pa decide; plu-ci verba debi gene evita? Qo-ka? Qe Ronald Cla=
rk e Wendy Ashby pa akorda?
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > Mi es ge-konfusi d=
e GID.
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > Saluta, X=
avi.
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > --- In glos=
alist@yahoogroups.com, Gary Miller <gmillernd@> wrote:
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> >=
 > > > > >
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > Xavi--
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > >=
 > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > Plu verba ko mikro numera 1 in GID pa =
es origi "Glosa 1000."  Plu
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > Glosa krea-pe, c=
efa nu Wendy Ashby, du face ma sistema u-ci verba-fa;
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > =
> > > > > seqe-co nu es u neo nomina "Centra Glosa" e u sema ++.  U turba p=
a es;
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > Glosa 1000 pa faktu habe ma poli de 10=
00 verba, cefa kausa plu itera
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > de Latino e H=
elena verba in id; anti-co id veri nece u ma boni
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > =
> > > sistema.  "Centra Glosa" nu habe proxi 1300 verba-- faktu, u ma mikro=

> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > qantita de origi Glosa 1000.  (Un homi-face=
 lingua Lojban plus habe
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > proxi 1300 verba.)
=
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > U bibli 18 G=
RADU AD EURO-GLOSA dice; "Na itera nece sti importa; Glosa
> > 
> > > 
> > =

> > > > > > > 1000 facili pote ergo de ali speci de tema, klude plu forti =
tekno
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > tema, posi ko no-freqe uti de Mega Glo=
sa."  Mi pa detekti sura veri
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > u-ci frase, te=
m uti Centra Glosa.
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > =
> > > > Plus mi pa gene hedo de tu pedi-bola kanta.  Anti-co in Nord Dakota=
 na
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > universita sporta grega es "plu Bisona."=

> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > Saluta,
> >=
 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > _ _
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > /.
> > 
> > =
> 
> > 
> > > > > > > /\   Gary
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > > > #
> > 
> > >=
 
> > 
> > > > > > >
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > > >
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > > =
>
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > >
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
=
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > >     
> > 
> > >      
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > >     
> =
> 
> > >     
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > 
>=
 > 
> > > 
> > 
> > >    		 	   		  
> > 
> > > 
> > 
> > > [Non-text porti=
ons of this message have been removed]
> > 
> > >
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
=
> >     
> >      
> > 
> >     
> >     
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> >=
    		 	   		  
> > 
> > [Non-text portions of this message have been remov=
ed]
> >
>



