---
authorName: Gary Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary Miller &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBR2JLaUxvd1ZWdFktS2Q9T0F0UFFBNktHaGtlcEpoMTZ1TF9kUjRNK2JoQ1JLTDhtd0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2130
msgSnippet: THE CABALLERO S WAY ... by O.Henry ... (Last Christmas someone gave me
  a few episodes of the old TV show THE CISCO KID. ... The show says it is based on
  a
nextInTime: 2131
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1319937684'
prevInTime: 2129
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: xt9QHyHFaNM45j9LQxc3VYt_nPO1O-Fd547Pd1OEF6vgGCuoKLfKwMEJViLz6t1SW2Wcdl1B3cmPqUbEUkOZMoF8DE81jt-_
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Cisco Kid 1
topicId: 2130
userId: 486875979
---

	THE CABALLERO'S WAY
	> U MODE DE PLU EQUS-PE

	by O.Henry
	> ex O.Henry


=

(Last Christmas someone gave me a few episodes of the old TV show THE CISC=
O KID.
> (Pa-Kristo-Nati uno-pe pa dona a mi oligo monstra de paleo tele-vi=
de serie U CISCO JUVE-AN.

The show says it is based on a short story by O.=
Henry.
> U drama dice; id es ge-establi per mikro-nara ex O.Henry.

Now wit=
h the Internet I was able to find out what the story was.
> Per Inter-Reti =
mi nu pote detekti; u nara es qo.

The fact is the story had little to do w=
ith the TV series.
> U faktu es; u nara pa habe proxi zero relati de TV ser=
ie.

But I always wanted to translate a Western into Glosa, so....
> Anti-c=
o mi pa panto-kron volu translati u bovi-an nara per Glosa, iso....

I have=
 left out a few demeaning phrases.
> Mi pa apo oligo non-honora frase.

As =
for the TV show, I have put an article on it on my blog:
> De TV drama, mi =
pa moti un artikla de id a mi blog:

glos-avanti.blogspot.com.)
_ _
/.
/\ =
=A0 Gary
#



The Cisco Kid had killed six men in more or less fair scrimma=
ges, had
murdered twice as many, and had winged a larger number whom he
mod=
estly forbore to count.
> U Cisco Juve-an pa cide sixa andro tem plu sub ju=
sti viole, no-justi cide u-la per bi, e vulna u ma mega numera; an humili n=
e memo.

The Kid was twenty-five, looked twenty; and a careful insurance
co=
mpany would have estimated the probable time of his demise at, say,
twenty-=
six.
> U Juve-an habe bi-penta anua, e feno habe bi-zero.  U kura insura ko=
mpani sio valu an morta kron bi-sixa anua.

