---
authorName: Ali Nimah
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Ali Nimah &lt;alinimah@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGppaXM1dStnOXNrQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDEzMzA0NTM2MTEuNzIwMzAuWWFob29NYWlsTmVvQHdlYjEyMTcwMS5tYWlsLm5lMS55YWhvby5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: PGppZm1ycCszaWdmQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPiA8amlpczV1K2c5c2tAZUdyb3Vwcy5jb20+
layout: email
msgId: 2228
msgSnippet: "plu karo glosa-pe\nsaluta\nWhat is the use of previous and current discussion\
  \ about defects of my beloved glosa, if no one has authority to change it? ;-(\_\
  \ (lfn"
nextInTime: 2229
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1330453611'
prevInTime: 2227
prevInTopic: 2227
profile: alinimah
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Ww5wBpfEMiTe0PLz25OBvHDwKDaSDtbPTl29joODbfts2UDRcHgC5Tdee-LTfnk5IgQ-0w4pwn1UynLDW0VB1BgoWcQF
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Word Derivation'
topicId: 2220
userId: 503879723
---

plu karo glosa-pe
saluta
What is the use of previous and current discussion=
 about defects of my beloved glosa, if no one has authority to change it? ;=
-(=C2=A0 (lfn and mondlango is changeable because their creators are living=
 and accept improvement!!)
I made "glisa", an improved glosa !!!!
1- word e=
nding is not sacrosanct; why not use those of esperanto?
2- 90% of glisa is=
 from latin(greek is known to doctors and engineers!)
3- cardinals better b=
e as (andro bi > bia andro=3D2nd man)

4- u, un > la; a, ad> a always;
5-pl=
ural must come before noun: plu kali femina>kala pi femino
6-verbs(usable a=
s nouns also) end in -i,=C2=A0 skribi=3D write, writing
7-possessives: mi p=
lu boni bibli> mia bona pi libro

Alas, only one user of glisa , me !!!!
sa=
luta


________________________________
 From: Stephan Schneider <stefichjo=
@...>
To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com 
Sent: Tuesday, February 28, 2012 =
6:34 PM
Subject: [glosalist] Re: Word Derivation
 

=C2=A0 
Hi Xavier, Gary=
 and Marcel,

I was afraid you could say something like that. But I thank y=
ou very much for your explications and examples. An etymological indication=
 might be useful, but it only postpones the problem of a word derivation sc=
heme. For instance, if "noctu" comes from "nocturnal", "di" should be "diu"=
 because of "diurnal".

It is a difficult task to chose the final vowel sen=
sibly. I came up with this approach (for latin words): (Please excuse that =
I write "c" instead of "k".)

Let's take the ablative form (with -e instead=
 of -i): mare (*mari), manu, sole (*sola), porta, portu. Let's elide unnece=
ssary "-in-" and "-it-": lume (*lumi), home (*homi), nome, lime (*limita).
=

Let's take the past participle stem with -i as a regular form for verbs: s=
tati, facti, lecti.

Let's form another word based on the past participle o=
nly if it has a different meaning and is therefore not easily expressible b=
y ordinary grammatical constuctions: nati (birth), natio (nation); visi (to=
 look at), visio (to watch), visione (to see in a dream or in trance); lect=
i (to read), lectio (lecture), lectione (lesson).

Let's use the original v=
erb form only if it has a different meaning: vide (to see), visi (to look a=
t); face (to do), facti (to make). ("lege" meaning "to read" wouldn't have =
a different meaning than "lecti". Therefore "lege" should mean something di=
fferent, either "to collect" (which could be expressed by "colecti") or it =
should mean "law", from Latin "lege" (<< lex).)

Let's use the ablative end=
ing -u of the -us -us declension (the new word should have additional conno=
tation to the idea of "a single/entire execution of an action"): acti (to a=
ct, acting), actu (an act (theatre)). Also with -ura: statu (state), statur=
a (stature).

Let's use the ending -o instead of -ore: amore >> amo, odore =
>> odo, calore >> calo. Same with -ore in combination with past participle =
stems: cursi (to run), cursu (course), curso (cursor); ("acto" for "actor" =
would be correct but wouldn't add additional meaning, so "acti-pe" should b=
e preferred).

The original nominative ending could be used, too: "data", "=
datum", "status", "casus" (case in grammar vs. "casu" - "case") in case we =
ran out of endings.

The ending of the base word could be elided, for insta=
nce in poetry: act(i), sol(e), man(u), vit(a), dom(o).

I'm not so sure abo=
ut greek words yet. We could try and distinguish "fotograf" (photograph), "=
fotografo" (photographer), "fotografia" (photography), "fotografi[c]" (phot=
ographic). On the other hand these words are so close in meaning that they =
should be simply derived in Glosa, like "fotograf(o)-pe". The ending -o may=
 not mean anything at all and should be used only in compounds, like "fot-o=
-graf(o)" with "fot" (light) as the base word.

Regards,
Stephan

--- In gl=
osalist@yahoogroups.com, "Xavier Abadia" <xabadiar@...> wrote:
>
> Hi, Step=
han, and Marcel.
> 
> Glosa partially inherits the morphology plan of Inter=
glossa, which usually gives a final i to the nouns from the Latin 2d and 3d=
 declensions: agri, avi, bovi, cani, carni, clavi, feli, fili, flori, horti=
, igni, infanti, insecti, etc. And it gives a final a to nouns from the 1t =
and 2d neuter: aqua, camera, carta, casea, cauda, nasa, etc.
> 
> Glosa see=
ms to develop its own morphology depending on derived words, which were usu=
ally adopted by English, such as nocturn(al) from Latin nocturnus. So Glosa=
 has noktu while Interglossa has nocti. Gary has given a good set of exampl=
es in the previous message.
> 
> I think this morphology plan makes the voc=
abulary more difficult to memorize. So the dictionary of Glosa should provi=
de the etymologic key of every word (noktu < L. nocturnus, A. nocturnal), s=
o we can memorize the lexicon with confidence. Now we are usually forced to=
 guess why the morphology of this or that word is as it is.
> 
> Greetings.=

> 
> 
> --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Marcel Springer" <marcel@> wrot=
e:
> >
> > 
> > Ave Stephan, bene-veni e welcome und willkommen a Glosalist=
. 
> > 
> > 
> >  > (I'm referring to the GID: http://www.glosa.org/gid/gle=
n.htm and
> >  >  the derivation rules described in Wikipedia:
> >  > http:=
//en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glosa#Word_Derivation_.5B6.5D .They 
> >  >  don't =
seem to fit. Are there any derivation rules at all?) 
> > 
> > Is the autho=
r of the wikipedia-article here in glosalist, or did
> > anyone of our grou=
p contributed to it?  If so, I would like to thank
> > you - for the help, =
that it gives to our language and, personally,
> > thanks for its link to t=
he glosa.org homepage. 
> > 
> > 
> >  > We got "noktu", "lakti" and "fonta=
", but the latin ablative forms
> >  > are "nocte", "lacte" and "fonte". Wh=
at's the reason for -u, -i and
> >  > -a in Glosa? 
> >  > We got "honora",=
 "kalori", "odoro", "amo", but the latin ablative
> >  > forms are "honore"=
, "calore", "odore", "amore". What's the reason
> >  > for "-ora", "-ori", =
"-oro", "-o" in Glosa? 
> >  > ... 
> > 
> > Over the last years, we had a =
lot of discussion here in glosalist
> > about this final vowel problem.  I =
like your suggestions very well and
> > I would appreciate a word derivatio=
n like this.  But please note, that
> > wikipedia is misleading here. 
> > =

> > Glosa words are NOT derived from Greek and Latin words nor by means of=
 
> > methods based on classical philology. 
> > Glosa words are derived FR=
OM ENGLISH WORDS with Greek and Latin
> > origin! 
> > 
> > And so we get w=
ords like "noktu" (nocturnal), "lakti" (lactic),
> > "fonta" (fountAin) and=
 so on. 
> > 
> > Saluta - Marcel


 
  ----------

=3D=3DHistory=3D=3D

Profesor engles Lancelot Hogben created [[interglossa]] in which he watche=
d fires above University of Aberdeen in orld war II . He removed all affixe=
s and changes to words  inspired by the publication ofe [[latino sine flexi=
one]] by Peano en 1905,buthe decided to reduce the dictionary to  880 words=
.He published his ideas  in 1943 as "Interglossa: A draft of an auxiliary f=
or a democratic world order, being an attempt to apply semantic principles =
to language design" (Pelican Books).

=3D=3D=3DGlosa=3D=3D=3D

* '''Glosa''' is international auxiliary language. It is an isolating lang=
uage: There are no affixes or changes to words, which retain always thier o=
riginal forms. Instead, articles indicate their gramatical roles!
* '''Glisa''' is improved "glosa",which is clearer, with freedom in order =
of words, and more exact and simple! It is created by Dr    Mohamed Ali, an=
 iraqi pediatrician ([[User:Myaleee*myaleee]], email  myalee@... Octob=
re 2010.

=20
*I made arbitrary changes to words to make them easily recognisible,and un=
derstandable! Words from Latin are prefered to Greek ones, bela is prettier=
 than kali(whole words like '''komputero''' is more international than "put=
a-me" thinking machine of glosa, no?)
* Many suffixes are removed (-ma,-li,-do,-ka etc) and others are added lik=
e "rita " worthy of etc!

=3D=3DGrammar=3D=3D

=3D=3D=3DPronunciation=3D=3D=3D

=20
*5 vowels like in Spanish and are pronounced like English : fAther, cafE, =
machIne, mOre, lUnar.
*Diphthongs. Pronounce vowels separately.
*Consonants same as in English, except:
*C always like  CH in English CHurCH.
*J like Y in Yes.
*G always lke Get.
*Q like English  QU or KW.
*SC like English  SH=20

=3D=3D=3Dpersonal Pronouns =3D=3D=3D

{*class=3D"simple"
=20
!English!! Glisa !! possessives
=20
*I ,'''mi''' ,'''mia'''
=20
* we ,'''nos''' ,'''nosa'''
=20
* Thou ,'''tu''' ,'''tua'''
=20
* you(pl.) ,'''vos''' ,'''vosa'''
=20
* He ,'''il''' ,'''ila'''
=20
* She ,'''el''' ,'''ela'''
=20
* Id ,'''id''' ,'''ida'''
=20
* they ,'''ili ,'''ilia'''
=20
* one(pron.) ,'''on''' ,'''ona'''
=20
=20
* one another ,'''alelo''' **
=20
* himself,herself etc ,'''aute''' ,'''se'''
=20
* his((etc) own,,'''sea'''
*}

=3D=3D=3DVerbs=3D=3D=3D

In glisa, these articles indicate tense,mode and aspect of the  verb:

'''Aj''' (pronounced "ai") placed anywhere =3D imperative: '''aj veni ili'=
'' =3D let them come; '''tu e mi aj somni''': let me and you sleep.

{*class=3D"simple"
=20
* '''pa''' ,ia (past)
=20
* '''fu''' ,va (future)
=20
* '''nu''' **now
=20
* '''sio''' ,would
=20
* '''du''' ,continue doing
=20
* '''nu pa''' ,already
*}

'Most'' of verbs finish by '''-i''', adjectives by '''-a''', nouns by '''-=
o''': e.g '''domo''' (house), '''kano''' (dog),  '''facila''' =3D easy, '''=
amiko''' =3D friend.

=3D=3D=3D=3DSufisas=3D=3D=3D=3D
=20
* verb  + '''ta''' =3D adjective or participle:
** '''ami ta matro''' =3D loving mother
** '''mi es studi ta''' =3D I am studying
* verb, nom + '''za''' =3D full of:
** '''studi za puero''' =3D studious boy
** '''floro za''' =3Dfull of flowers
* verb , noun,or adjective + '''to''' =3D concept name
** '''la ami to''' =3D the love
** '''pluta to''' =3D richness
** '''la amiko to''' =3D friendship
* verb + '''te''' =3D adverb:
** '''studi te''' =3D while studying
** '''ami te''' =3D with love
* verb  + '''dia''' =3D pasive participle  (-da):
** '''ami dia''' =3D loved one
** '''mia ami diafes''' =3Dmy beloved girls (suffixes are connected, the l=
ess the better: '''mia ami dia puero (fes)'''my loved boyfriends(girls)
** '''frakti dia''' =3D broken
* verb  + '''fi''' =3D become:
** '''frakti fi''' =3D get broken
* verb + '''zi''' =3D cause:
** '''trista zi'' =3D make sad
=3D=3D=3D=3D prefixes=3D=3D=3D=3D
onklo:uncle
onklo fe: aunt
avo: grandpa
sibo: brother
sibo fe: sister
yes/no questions  Qe... ?=20
What/Which?       Qo?=20
How many?         Qo numero? qo multa
How much?         qo multa
How often?        Qo freqa?=20
Why? (cause)      Qoka?=20
Where?            Qolo?=20
What thing?       Qojo?=20
Who?              Qope?=20
How?              Qomode?; Komo?=20
When?             Qohoro?; Qodi? qotem?

Prefixes

no=3Dopposive : no bela , no facila
dise (adverb): separate> dise vesti: undress
exe : exe=3D pa : exe sponso ex husband
semi: half : semi horo
ete =3Ddiminutive ete ridi smile, ete domo small house
ege =3Dbig  ege parli, ege domo, ege felica
tri: emo : one third, cento emo:one hundredth
opla: pro multa fi : bi opla=3Ddouble, tri opla=3Dtreble, ok opla: kilo op=
la kronos:one thousand times
mise : falsa :mise logi misunderstand
retre:  retre : retre veni
re: again :re faci=20
stepa patro: step father
vice deputy: vice cefa:   deputy chief
re: again :re faci =3Ddo again

=3D=3D=3DExamples=3D=3D=3D

=20

{*class=3D"simple"

* Past ,'''Pa''' ,'''Mi pa lekti la biblo.''' **I have read the book.
=20
* continuant Past  ,'''Pa du''' ,'''Mi pa du lekti la biblo.''' ,I have be=
en reading the book.
=20
=20
* Pasada perfeta ,'''Pa (pa)''' (vea: '''pra''') ,'''Mi pa (pa) lekti la b=
iblo.''' **ihave read the book
=20
* Presente ,'''(nu)''' ,'''Mi (nu) lekti la biblo.''' **I read the book.
=20
* Presente continuante ,'''Du''' ,'''Mi du lekti la biblo.''' ,I am readin=
g the book.
=20
* Presente perfeta ,'''Nu pa''' ,'''Mi nu pa lekti la biblo.''' **I have r=
ead the book.
=20
* Futur ,'''Fu''' ,'''Mi fu lekti la biblo.''' ,I shall read the book.
=20
* Futur prosima ,'''Nu fu''' ,'''Mi nu fu lekti la biblo.''' ,I shall soon=
 read the book.
=20
* Futur perfeta ,'''Fu pa''' ,'''Mi fu pa lekti la biblo.''' ,I shall have=
 read the book.
=20
* Ipotesal ,'''Sio''' ,'''Mi sio lekti la biblo...''' ,If I would read the=
 book
=20
* Comanda ,'''aj!''' ,'''Aj lekti!''' **read!
=20
* ,,'''nos nu aj lekti''' ,let us read the book !
=20
* Nega ,'''Ne''' ,'''Mi ne lekti la biblo.''' ,Ido not read the book.
=20
* Demanda ,'''Qe''' ,'''Qe mi lekti la biblo?''' **Do I read the book?
=20
* Partisipio pasiva ,'''-dia''' ,'''La biblo es lekti dia.''' ,read(passiv=
e) ("dia" (en lfn "tra") de glosa cambia a '''tra''')
=20
* deveni ,'''-fi''' ,la biblo lekti fi ex mi. **This book is being read by=
 me.
=20
* Infinitivo ,,'''lekti''' ,read
=20
* Nom verbal ,'''(to)''' ,'''lekti to es bona''' ,the reading is good (of =
the book)
*}

=3D=3D=3DSuffixas=3D=3D=3D

* "-ka", "-bo", "-fi", "-va", "-li", "-ma" is eliminated, using complete w=
ords in stead, words like '''vaso''', '''kamero'''.
* '''-jo''' =3D thing:
** '''vori jo''' =3D food
** '''vori jos''' =3D foods
* '''ajo''' (pronounced as "aio") =3D thing
* '''lesa '''=3D sin: vidi lesa nonseeing.sightless
** '''uci es bona ajo!'''
* '''-rita''' (de "merita"):
** '''lekti rita biblo''' =3D a book worth reading.
* '''vidi ritajos''' =3D '''ajos merita de vidi! alo vidi rita ajos!'''
* '''-bila''' =3D able
** '''vidi bila''' =3D  visible =20
* '''-lo''' =3D loko , general in sense
** '''studi lo''' =3D location, room for study
* '''-fa''' =3D plural:
** '''homi fa''' =3D humanity
* '''meko''' =3D apparatus:
** '''seki meko''' =3D knife
* names are male: forming female is by adding suffix "fe"
** '''sibo''' =3D brother, '''sibo fe''' =3Dsister
** '''filo''' =3D son, '''filo fe''' =3D daughter // "filo" (in glosa "fib=
re")becomes '''filio'''
** '''tio''' =3D grandfather, '''tio fe''' =3D grandmother

=3D=3D=3Dvarious Notes =3D=3D=3D

'''verbo''' =3D verb , '''parolo''' =3D word, '''adjektivo''' =3D adjektiv=
e

{*class=3D"simple"
=20
* "po-co" > '''po te''' ,pos esta
=20
* '''dei''' =3D ce ("than") ,'''ma pova dei''' =3D poorer than=20
=20
* "plus-co" > '''plus te''' ,in addition
=20
* "homo-co" > '''homo te''' ,similarly
=20
* "minus" > '''sin''' ,'''sin domo''' =3Dhomeless
=20
* "Di mo" > '''saturdi''', etc **
=20
*'''mon''' =3D un ,'''mona''' =3D prima
=20
*'''bi''' =3D du ,'''bia''' =3D du (ordinal)
=20
* ,'''bia krono''' =3D second time, "kron" as  suffix
=20
* '''tem''' ,when
=20
* '''a il''', '''e ili''', '''ko ili''' ,('''a''', '''e''', '''o''' do not=
 change to ad il etc)
=20
*   usa '''apreni''' =3D learn ,(not "gene sko")
=20
* '''doci''' =3D teach ,'''doci ro''' =3D man teacher
*}

=3D=3D=3Dauxiliary Verbs =3D=3D=3D
=20

{*class=3D"simple"
=20
* '''debi''' ,must
=20
* '''neci''' ,need
=20
* '''lici''' ,is permitted
=20
* '''posi''' ,is possible, posi ta =3Dpossible, posi te=3Dpossibly
=20
* '''poti''' ,can
=20
* '''mori kori''' ,accustomed to danse
=20
* '''voli''' ,want, desire
=20
* '''ami''' ,love
=20
* '''gusti''' ,like
=20
=20
* '''gusto''' ,taste, gusto fi=3D to taste
=20
* '''tendi''' ,intende
=20
* '''feni''' ,seem
=20
* '''proto fi, komensi''' ,commense
=20
* '''prepari''' ,prepare
=20
* '''duri''' ,continue
=20
* '''stopi''' ,stop
=20
* '''esperi''' ,hope
=20
* '''tenti''' ,take care
=20
* '''studi pe''' ,studiant=20
=20
* '''studi fe''' ,studiant  female
=20
* '''studi ro''' ,studiant  male
=20
* '''studi lo''' ,school, bibliotheque
=20
* '''sko lo''' ,school
=20
* '''biblo lo''' ,bibliotheque
=20
* '''biblo-boteco''' ,library
=20
* '''pati lo alo hospitalo''' ,ospital (de '''pato''' "maladia", '''do''' =
"building")
=20
* '''oku-tego'' ,eyebrow (de '''tegu''' "covre", '''oku''' "oio")
=20
* '''agro lo''' ,cultiveria (de '''agri''' "cultiva", '''-lo''' =3D "loca"=
)
=20
* '''fago''' ,food, fago fi =3D eat, fago zi=3D feed
=20
* '''vespero fago''' ,dinner (de '''vespera''' "sera", '''fago''' )
=20
* '''dejuni jo  ''' ,breakfast
=20
* '''dejuni''' ,have  breakfast
*}
=09
=3D=3D=3DAdjetives=3D=3D=3D

Adjetives do not change  accordinga their names. they come before ore afte=
r name, end usually by -a.



=3D=3D=3DDeterminants=3D=3D=3D

'''La''' =3D "la". th indefinite article  "a" , "un" is unnecessary!

* '''femino''' =3D a woman
* '''la femino''' =3D the woman

'''-s''' for plural:

* '''mi ami la biblos''' =3DI love the books
* '''ula''' =3D that
** '''ula gato''' =3D that cat
** '''ula gatos''' =3D these cats
* '''uci''' =3D this
** '''uci gato''' =3D this cat
** '''uci gatos''' =3D these cats
* '''ulas''' (pronoun) =3Dthose
* '''ucis''' =3D these

=3D=3D=3DAdverbs=3D=3D=3D

Usually, use '''te''' after adjective or verb to form  the adverb:

* '''studi te''' =3D during study
* '''bela te''' =3D prettily
other adverbs:

* '''pokrona''' =3D late, pokrona te(av.) lately
* '''prekrona''' =3D early, prekrona te(av.)
* '''pa di''' =3D yesterday
* '''nu di''' =3D today (note that '''nuda''' =3D nude)
* '''fu di''' =3D tomorrow
* '''imedia''' =3D soon
* '''imedia te''' =3D soon
* '''krono''' =3D time, bi kronos, two times
* '''tempo''' =3D time
* '''dista''' =3D distant=20
* '''mesa''' =3D media=20
* '''nu''' =3D now
=09
=3D=3D=3DConjunctives=3D=3D=3D

* '''akorda te''' =3D accordingly
* '''alelo''' =3D one the other=20
* '''alo''' =3D or
* '''alo... alo''' =3D either... or
* '''alora''' =3D therefore
* '''anti te''' =3D still, although;'''klu te''' =3D although
* '''e''' =3D and
* '''fini te''' =3D   finally
* '''hetera te''' =3D otherwise
* '''ja''' =3D yes
* '''no''' =3D no
* '''kaso te''' =3D in the case of=20
* '''ko te''' =3D also
* '''klu''' =3D even=20
* '''ni... ni''' =3D neither... no
* '''pene''' =3D almost
* '''po te''' =3D afterwards; '''po ke''' =3Dafter( he goes..)
* '''posi''' =3D poti (verb ), '''posi ta''' =3D possible (adjective); '''=
posi te''' possibly
* '''plus te''' =3D in addition
* '''qasi''' =3D like, similar
* '''sed''' =3Dbut
* '''si ne...''' =3D if not
* '''ne... si''' =3D if... not
* '''vice''' =3D instead
=3D=3D=3DCorrelatives=3D=3D=3D
The=20
correlativesin  glisa put similar to those in  esperanto:

=20
{*class=3D"simple"
=20
! !! '''qo-''' !! '''uno-''' !! '''ali-''' !! '''panto-''' !! '''nuli-'''
=20
* thing '''-jo''' ,'''qojo''' =3D (what  thing) ,'''unojo''' =3D something=
; (this, that) uci, ula ,(any thing) '''alijo''' ,(every thing) pantojo ,(n=
othing) nulijo
=20
* Person '''-pe''' ,'''qope''' > who ,(somebody) '''unope''' ,(any body) '=
''alipe'''; (any) '''ali pe''' ,(all) '''panto''' ,(none) > '''nuli pe'''
=20
* Location '''-lo''' ,'''qolo''' (where) ,'''ubi''', '''unolo''' ,(there, =
here , somewhere) '''lalo''', '''cilo'''; (anywhere) '''algalo''' ,"to()"(a=
 ) '''pantolo'''(everywhere) ,'''nulilo'''
=20
* Mode '''-mode''' ,like '''qomode''' ,(in some mode) '''unomode''' ,(such=
 a way) '''ucimode''' ,(all modes) '''totamode''' ,(in nono modo) > '''a no=
 mode'''
=20
* Razona '''kausa''' ,car > '''pro ke'''; (per ce) '''qoka'''; (donce, car=
, afin) '''pro ke''' ,(per alga razona) '''unoka''' ,,( tota razonas) '''pa=
ntoka''' ,(per no razonas) > '''nulika'''
=20
* Time '''-kron''' ,when > '''qotem'''; (while) '''tem'''; (then) '''alikr=
on''' ,(alga ora, alga ves) '''unokron''' ,,(tota oras, tota veses) '''pant=
okron''' ,(no ora, no ves) '''nulikron''' (for all reasons)=20
=20
* quantity  '''-qanto''' ,(qo)qanto (cuanto) ,'''unoqanto'''; (tan multe, =
tan poca) '''taliqanto''', '''talipusa''' ,(alga) 	'''pantoqanto''' ,(tota)=
 '''pantoqanto''' **
=20
* Cualia '''-qali''' ,'''(qo)qali''' (como) ,'''unoqali'''; (tal) '''taliq=
ali''' ,(alga) '''algaqali''' ,(tota) '''pantoqali''' **
*}

=3D=3D=3DPreposadas=3D=3D=3D

{*class=3D"simple"
=20
! Glisa !! English !! Adverb !!=20
=20
* '''ab''' ,de (move) ,**
=20
* '''a''' ,a (move) ,**
=20
* '''ana''' **up ,'''ana te''' ,upword
=20
* '''anti''' ,contra, opposing ,'''anti te''' ,a contra
=20
* '''de''' **from ,**
=20
* '''dei''' ,than  ,**
=20
* '''dextro''' ,to right of   ,**
=20
* '''epi''' **above ,**
=20
* '''ex''' ,out / by ,**
=20
* '''in''' **in (move) ,**
=20
* '''infra''' ,under ,**
=20
* '''inter''' ,between ,**
=20
* '''intra''' ,in ,**
=20
* '''ka''' ,because,**
=20
* '''kata''' ,su (move) ,**
=20
* '''ko''' ,with ,**
=20
* '''kontra''' ,against ,**
=20
* '''laevo''' ,left ,**
=20
* '''sin''' ,without ,**
=20
* '''a margina''' ,a lado de, asta ,**
=20
* '''para''' ,asta ,'''para te''' ,esente a asta
=20
* '''per''' ,par, con (strumento) ,**
=20
* '''peri''' ,sirca ,**
=20
* '''po''' ,pos ,**
=20
* '''pre''' ,ante ,**
=20
* '''pro''' ,per ,**
=20
* '''proxi''' ,prosima de ,proxi ta (ajetivo), proxi te ,prosima(av.)
=20
* '''so''' ,donce ,**
=20
* '''supra''' ,supra ,**
=20
* '''tem''' ,a la mesma tempo como, en la periodo de ,**
=20
* '''topo''' ,a loca de ,**
=20
* '''tra''' ,tra ,**
=20
* '''trans''' ,tra, supra ,**
=20
* '''ultra''' ,ultra ,**
*}

=3D=3D=3DNumbers=3D=3D=3D



{*class=3D"simple"
=20
! numero !! English !! glisa
=20
* 0 ,zero ,'''nuli/zero'''
=20
* 1 ,one ,'''mon'''
=20
* 2 ,two ,'''bi'''
=20
* 3 ,three ,'''tri'''
=20
* 4 ,four ,'''tetri'''
=20
* 5 ,five ,'''penti'''
=20
* 6 ,six ,'''sixi'''
=20
* 7 ,seven ,'''septi'''
=20
* 8 ,eight ,'''okti'''
=20
* 9 ,nine ,'''noni'''
=20
* 10 **ten ,'''dek'''
=20
* 11 **eleven ,'''dekmon'''
=20
* 12 ,twelve ,'''dekbi'''
=20
* 20 ,twenty   ,'''bidek'''
=20
* 22 ,twenty two ,'''bidek-bi'''
=20
* 100 ,hundred ,'''cento'''
=20
* 101 ,hundred one ,'''cento-mon '''
=20
* 1.000 ,thousand ,'''(mon)kilo'''
=20
* 1.000.000 ,milion ,'''(mon)milion '''
*}
Qestios

yes/no questions  Qe... ?=20
What/Which?       Qo?=20
How many?         Qo numera?=20
How much?         Qo metri?=20
How often?        Qo freqe?=20
Why? (cause)      Qoka?=20
Why? (intent)     Qote?=20
Where?            Qolo?=20
What thing?       Qojo?=20
Who?              Qope?=20
How?              Qomode?; Komo?=20
When?             Qohoro?; Qodi?=20
=20
=3D=3Duseful frases=3D=3D

* '''Saluti! Ave!''' =3D hello!
* '''Bena veno, aj veni bona te !''' =3D wecome!
* '''Placi!''' =3D please!
* '''Aj pardoni! Peniti!''' =3D Pardon!
* '''Tua nimo es qo?,Tu nimo fi qo ''' =3D what is your name?
* '''Mia nimo es...''' =3D My name is...
* '''Qolo mi es?''' =3D where am I?
* '''Qanto?''' =3D How much?
* '''Qe tu pote dice Glosa?''' =3D Tu parli glisa?
* '''Mi ne logi.''' =3D I do not understand.
* '''Grati.''' =3D thanks.
* '''Zero problemo / Ne gravi.''' =3D No problem.
* '''A tua sano!''' =3D to your health!
* '''Bona fortuno!''' =3D good luck!
* '''Es bona di.''' =3D It is a good day.=20
* '''adio''' =3D goodbye.
* '''Qo(id) es ula?''' =3D what is that?
* '''Qomode tu sano fi, es  vos?''' =3D How are you?
* '''Bona matino!''' =3D good morning!
* '''Bona vespero!''' =3D good evening!
* '''Bona nokto!''' =3D good night!
* '''Bona kli to, somni to/ bona sonios.''' =3D good sleep/ good dreams.
* '''Mi ne poti detekti  defekto.''' =3D I find no errors.
* '''Bona''' =3D good
* '''Kini''' =3D go
* '''gato''' =3D a cat
* '''kano''' =3D a dog
* '''suino''' =3D a pig
* '''bovo''' =3D cow
* '''kavalo''' =3D horse
* '''rano''' =3D frog
* '''avio''' =3D bird
* '''abea''' =3D bee
* '''araneo''' =3D spider
* '''pisko''' =3D fish
=3D=3DExemples=3D=3D

* '''Il aute pa akti id''' =3D She did it herself
* '''Qe tu tendi kini per vagono(vagono te) a''' =3D do you want to go by =
car?
* '''La juva pes(pueros) pa lavi se''' =3D The boys washed herself.
* '''El ne poti kursi iso taka te iso mi.''' =3D She can not run as fast a=
s me.
* '''auto ergi pe''' =3D  self-employed person
* '''Qe tu memo ula gluka vespero?''' =3D Do you rememberthat nice evening=
?
* '''qo preco sio es gramo a ... ?''' =3D How much does this letter cost t=
o..?
* '''Tu debi mori de logi glisa taka te.''' You must get used to understan=
d glisa fast!
* '''Mi qesti fi( o qesti mi, miri) qe il fu veni?''' =3D I wonder if she =
will come.
* '''Ili pa noki se.''' =3D they hurt themselves.
* '''Ili auxi alelo.''' =3D they help one another
* '''Panto vos gresi longe pedi-vio.''' =3D all of you walk along the pave=
ment.
* '''Il pa doni a mi   memo jo ex Polska.''' =3D She gave me a souvenir fr=
om  Poland.
* '''Id es la mia. Id es la tua.''' =3D It is mine, It is yours.
* '''Tu neci deveni mori ta (neci mori) a uci friga klimo.''' =3D you need=
 to get used to that cold weather.
* '''Il mori visiti el bi kronos singu anua/setimano.''' =3D He habitually=
 visits her twiceevery year/weeek.
* '''Ula no es mori dia.''' =3Dthis is unusual.
* '''Il mori kini per trena a urba; sed nu di il fu kini per vagona.'''
* '''Qe mi lici auxi tu?''' =3D Is it permtted to help you?
* '''Aj lasi mi auxi tu.''' =3D Permit  me to aid you.
* '''Qe tu poti dici a mi la vio a ... ?''' =3D Can you tell me the way to=
 ... ?
=20
<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

they have 2 each  singu pe habe bi ajos
how many?         qo numera?; qanto?=20
count them        numera zi ili
June           junio,=20
Monday           lundi
date              datu=20
Articles
the           la=20
all,  panto
every        pan=20
any               ali=20
each              singu=20
enough of         sati , sati fi suffice
few               oliga
big, much, lot    mega=20
many, a lot of     multi=20
a little          pusi=20
only              solo, sola ta unique
a bit of          mero; peco
this    ucis
that   ulas
a kind of         speco , speco ta special
the whole of      holo=20
which?            qo?=20

rena  	sand
petro stone; =20
valvo  	valve, tap
apo zi 	remove, apo away
fortuno  	chance
fortuna za  	fortunate=20
ridi  	laugh
vexi 	annoy, irritate
logi  	understand
esti  	feel
kadi  	fall
per fortuno,  fortuna te 	by chance
mala fortuno  	unfortunately

Camping - A Few Phrases

elekti  loko  	choose a site
pleni la dorso-saketo  	pack a ruck-sack
fixi la filios)  	adjust the straps
fixi la fixi jo  	fasten the buckle
a vento  	windward
trakti movita domo  	trailer-tent
kampo-fa  	camping equipment
kolekti sika ligno (error in original: ligna)  	collect dry wood
faci kampo-piro  	make a camp fire
piro zi la  kuki meko  	light the stove
kambi la gaso-vaso  	change the gas-cylinder
pleni la aqa-vaso  	fill the water carrier
repari meko  	repair kit
obei la ruro ta konsilito
akti bona te, tem tu visiti la ruro.
 =3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D=3D
<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

Jon: Papa, mi voli gami Susan, nosa amiko fe en para ta domi!
Patro: Nulitem! Ka mi prekron habi ami ta relato ko ela matro! El es tua s=
ibo fe!
Jon: Seqi te, mi sio gami Mary, nosa hetera para ta amiko fe!
Patro: Nulimode!! Plus te, mi prekron te habi ami ta relato ko ela matro! =
Mi peniti, el anke es tua sibo fe!

Jon pa kini a sea matro, e pa dici trista te: Papa pa refusi gami zi mi ko=
 Mary alo Susan, ka ili bi es mia sibo fes!
Matro: Aj es felica! Tu poti gami alife qi tu desiri! Ka reala te, papa ne=
 es tua patro

</poem></div>

<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

Citi jos de Shakespeare

translati ex myaleee

* Eufamo! Eufamo! A! Mi pa losi mia eufamo! Mi pa losi la maxi granda de m=
ia aute, ka la resta jo  solita te es zoa ta!
* Qoka! so, la mundo es mia ostro qi mi fu aperi ko  spato.
* Nos kausti la radio jos de di.
* Uci es la kurta e la longa de id.
* pusi jubila to e  bona-veni to granda sio krei  felica celebro  .
* Felica to e aktiva to  faci la horas feni kurta.
* Exkusi to freqa pro ero faci la ero ma mala .
* O civila fe, ne doci tua labios de depresi, ka ili krei fi pro besi e ne=
 pro tali depresi to!
*Mi konsideri la mundo kom skeno lo, epi qi on debi  akti uno rolo, e mia =
rolo es fo trista!
*La kefo qi porti la korono kli anxi te!
*Ami to es vidi lesa!=20
*singu oku negoti pro sea aute e ne fidi a ali agento.
*La vino stimuli la desiri to sed id turbi la akti to!
*La diablo poti citi la biblo sankta pro aute tende!  =20
* Ne tenti temgeni de alo temdoni a tua amiko, ka tu sio losi ambi la ajo =
 e tua amiko.
* E la pusa studi-ro repti lenta te  sin voli to  a sko lo plori te, ko se=
a paketo e sea faco ko la radi jos de matino .
* Tu sio  es tali modesta kom jelo, tali puri kom nevo, sed tu ne fu eviti=
 la skandalo.
* Tem trista jos veni, ili veni ne kom spios individo ta, sed in armeos.
* Tempestos oscili la klora ami rita blastos   de majo.
* Mi fo desiri ke nos sio es ma bona aliena pes.
* A! Si mi pa seqe la artos!
* Aj vesti aute ko  virtuo si tu ne posesi id .
* Aj klami "Destrui"! e aj expedi ab la kanos de milito!
* Nos veni pro geni id qi habi in aute nuli profito excepte la nimo, la pe=
co de teritorio.

</poem></div>

<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

Enigmos de Existo
da Lubnana Poeto Ilia Abu Madi

translati ex myaleee

Mi pa veni ne ski de qolo
Sed mi pa veni
E mi pa vidi uno vio ante mi
Epi qo mi pa du gresi.
Mi dura gresi vole ne vole
Qomode mi pa veni? Qomode mi pa vidi mia vio?
mi ne ski!

Qe mi es palea alo neo in uci existo?
Qe mi es liba pe alo sklavo in katenos?
Qe mi duci aute in bio to alo
Mi du es duci dia?
Mi fo desiri ski, sed regreti te
Mi ne ski!

Mia vio? Qomode es mia vio?
Qe id es kurta alo longa?
Qe mi deskendi a infra alo askendi a ana?
Alo kadi a infra de fundo?
Alo ambi mi e mia vio du stopi tem la mundo kursi?
Mi ne ski!

Qolo es mia trista to e mia ridi to
Tem mi pa es juva puero
Qolo es mia ignori to e mia alegri to
Tem mi pa es pusa e gluka babio?
Qolo es mia sonios qi semper du seqi mi?
Ili panto pa vanesci! Sed qomode vanesci ?
Mi ne ski!


O Maro mega! Komo mi, tu habi areno e perlo
Sed tu habi nuli umbro
E mi habi umbro epi geo!
E tu ne habi cerebro, e mi es fo sofia
So qoka tu vive permana te e mi mori ab??!
Mi ne ski!=20
</poem></div>

<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

God must love stupid people. He mae SO many.
Teo sura te ami stupida personos! El pa krei tali poli de ili!

Always borrow money from a pessimist. He won't expect it back.
Panto tem, temgeni valuto ex pesimista pe! Il no fu expekti  a re geni id =
 itera te!

A clear conscience is usually the sign of a ba memory.
Mori te, pura konsienso sio  indiki  mala memo!=20

Never get into fights with ugly people, they have nothing to lose.
Semper no kombati ko stupida persono! Il habi nuli jo pro losi!

Artificial intelligence is no match for natural stupidity.
Natura stupida to es ma forta dei artifica inteliga to  !

Circumstance does not make the man; it reveals him to himself
cirkumsto no faci la persono! Id reveli el a se aute!=20

When a woman steals your husband, there is no better revenge than to let h=
er keep him."
Tem uno gino klepti tua sponso,la maxi bona retalio sio  lasi il teni il!

Laugh at your problems, everybody else does.
Ridi a tua problemos, ili sio vanesci imedia te!

We have enough gun control. What we need is idiot control.
Ni habi sata kontrolo de fusilos. Qojo nos neci es kontrolo de moronos!

My opinions may have changed, but not the fact that I am right.
Posi te, mia opinos  pa muti, sed mi es  semper korekta!
A little boy asked his father, "Dady, how much does it cost to get married=
?" Father replied, "I don't know son, I'm still paying."
uno Pusa filo qesti  sea patro , " Papa, Qanto es la preci pro gami?"
Patro:"mi no ski , filo, mi es ankora paga ta!"
Some cause happiness wherever they go. Others whenever they go.
Unopes kausa felica to a alilo ili  kini. Hetero pes  alitem ili  kini  ab=
!
</poem></div>

<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

Enigmos de existo

Mi pa veni ne ski de qolo
sed mi pa veni
E mi pa vidi uno via ante mi=20
Epi qo mi pa du gresi.
Mi dura gresi vole ne vole
Qomode mi pa veni? Qomode mi pa vidi mia via?
mi ne ski!
Qe mi es paleo o neo in uci existo?
Qe mi es libe pe o sklavo in katenos?
Qe mi duci auto in bio to o=20
Mi du es  duci dia?
Mi fo desiri ski, sed regreti te
Mi ne ski!
Mia via? Qomode es mia via?
Oe id es korta o longa?
Qe mi deskendi a infra o askendi a ana?
O kade a infra de fundo?
O ambi mi e mia via du sto tem la mundo kursi?
Mi ne ski!
Qolo es mia  trista to e mia ridi to
Tem mi pa es juve re(ju an. juve puero?)
Qolo es mia ignora to e mia alegra to
Tem mi pa es pusa e gluka babi?
Qolo es mia sonias qi semper du seqe mi?
Ili panto pa es vanesce ! Sed Komo vanesce ?
Mi ne ski!
O Maro mega! Tu habi kom mi areno e perlo
Sed tu habi nuli umbro
E mi habi umbro epi geo!
E  tu ne habi cerebro, e mi es fo sofia
So qoka tu vive  permana te e mi mori ab??!
Mi ne ski!

</poem></div>

<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>
La vagona de Jon  frakti fi, tem il du age a sea ergo lo.
[Jon's car broke itself while he was driving to work (his work-place).]
Tem el askendi kata  gradios el pa kadi, e noki aute.
[When she descended the stairs, she fell and hurt herself.]
La  kano fagi la karno.  [The dog eats the meat.]
La kano voki a la posta pe.
La auxi jo es   tresoro, do tu aj es  kura za a qi tu doni id!
Si tu es pluta, panto amikos sio desiri tu
E si tu deveni pova, klu tua sibos fu eviti tu!
La vera amiko resti sincera a sea amiko in tri kasos:
1 tem il suferi de mega turbo
2 tem il es absenta
3 tem il pra es  morta!
Uci es la femino qi doci mediti so.  	This is the lady who teaches meditat=
ion.
Qe tu ski la andro qi pa merki uci navio?  	Do you know the man; who bough=
t this boat?
U tetrapoda es u vivi jo, krei jo; qi habi tetri podos.  	A tetrapod is a =
creature; which has four legs.
Uci es la femino qi eko ula mega domo proxi la religio lo.  	This is the l=
ady; who lives in that big house near the church.
Aj bibi uci medika jo  tri kronos singu di.=20
No! mi ne ami uci speco de vesti jo.  	No! I don't like this kind clothes.
=09
Tu feni ete palida  	You look rather pale.
Uci es la torto qi teni kemi-kromo.  	This is the cake which contains arti=
ficial coloring.
Qe, tu memoi la andro  tu pa vide pa-di?  	Do you remember the man you saw=
 yesterday.
Mi pa vide u vagona qi  tu pa merki pa-di.  	I saw the car you bought yest=
erday.
Tu pa parli a qope?  	Who did you speak to?
Es multa specos de zoas in ula lando.  	There are many kinds of animals in=
 that country.
Qo horo tu fu veni?  	What time will you come?
El  es ilia sea solo infanto.  	She is their only child.

Aj nos kori nu!
mi e ela sibo aj veni nu

La andro qi adori Teo pro desiri   Paradiso es merkato pe!
La andro qi adori Teo pro fobi Il, es sklavo!
La andro qi adori Teo pro grati Il, es andro liba!
</poem></div>

<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

nosa patro in cielo,=20
tua nimo ay reveri fi.
Tua krati to sio veni;=20
Tua tendi to aj  akti fi
Paco aj es epi Geo homo in cielo ;
Nu di, aj doni  nosa di-pano a nos;
E Tu aj pardoni nosa  mala akti jos.
Homo  nos pa pardoni ili qi akti mala te a nos.
E ne dirigi nos a  seduci za statos;
Sed liba zi nos ab mala jos.
Ka panto tem, Tu du teni  krati to,
Dino e  eufamo .
Amen.

<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

The Owl and the Pussy-cat

Bubo e  gato fe pa kini a  maro
In uno bela klora navo
Ili pa preni oliga melo e mega valuto
Involvi dia in  bileto de penti paundos
La bubo pa skopi ana a la astros
E du kanti a  pusa gitaro,
"O gluka gato, o gato mia ami to!
Tu es fo bela gato!
Tu es,
Tu es!
Tu es fo bela gato!

La  gato pa dici a la bubo,
" Tu eleganta avio!
Tua  kanti jos es tan bela e dulca !
Aj tu  gami mi toste!=20
Nos pra atendi fo longa te!
Sed qolo nos sio detekti  anulo?"
Ili pa du veli tem mon anua e  mon di,
A uno isolo topo  pomo-arbos  kresci
E ala uno suino pa stari  in  densa lo,
Ko  anulo a  fino de sea naso
Sea naso
Sea naso
Ko  anulo a  fino de sea naso

"Kara suino, qe tu akordi de vendi tua anulo
Pro mon sciling?"  La suino pa dici "Ja, placi te"
So ili pa preni id e pa toste   gami fi
Ex uno pavo qi du eko epi  kolono!
Ili pa vori  freska pomos e seki dia karno
qi ili pa vori ko  ligno ta spatulo!
E manu ko manu, epi areno lo,
Ili pa kori infra la lumo de luno=20
la lumo de luno=20
la lumo de luno=20
Ili pa kori infra la lumo de luno=20

</poem></div>

<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

*Mento mega, parli jo  pusa!
*Ne hesiti de oferi  pusa mero, ka uci es ma bona dei doni nuli jo!
*Andro granda, dori jo granda!
*Justa to  es tro grava ; Opresi to  es facila sed turba za!
*La nati-lando es uci in qi tu esti felica to !
*La dici jo "mi pa audi id" es mala; la dici jo  "mi pa vidi id" es bona!
*Posi te,  vidi ta andro fali  buto, e mon ko debila oku fusili bona te!

* Tu es toleri ta  in bi kasos:
1- tu toleri uno jo qi tu odi!
2- tu toleri uno jo qi tu desiri!

* Mi filo, aj memo la  qatri neci za ajos in vivi to :
1- la maxi bona pluta jo es vera te la sofa to!
2- la maxi bona heredi jo es vera te la tekna to!
3- la maxi bona auxi jo es vera te la  konsili to!
4- la maxi mala  pova jo  es vera te la ignori to!
* Ne akompani   mala amiko, ka tua karaktero sio mala fi, sin tua  tendi t=
o!

Mi esti felica to; tu vidi e Glisa habi multa funktios. Id ne es solo inte=
resi jo. Id es   neci jo.

Mi e mon hetera Glisa-fe tendi ke proto te faci  Glisa grego in nosa urbo.=
 Pa setimana nos pa loko zi  anunci jos in  biblo los,  religio los, e in n=
osa sko lo. Uci setimana mi grafi de Glisa in nosa nova papiro. Fu dtursdi =
es la prima Glisa unio. Mi qesti aute ke qanto personos fu veni. Qe  Glisa-=
pe uni freqa te in tua urbo?

Ko uci gramo mi bali  la posto karto de mi urbo; id habi tetri piktos. 1) =
 duci-vio ko  botekos. 2)  katedralo. 3)  fo palea teatro  e 4)  fluvo-vist=
o. Mi freqe gresi para fluvo tem bela klimo.

Id es fo brevi tempo pre tu kini a  India; mi esperi ke  tu visiti fu es e=
ge interesi ta, e fu doni  a tu mega felica to.

</poem></div>


<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

Arabi Noktos

glisa fi ex myaleee

Arabi noktos, alo kilo e mon noktos es  kolekti jo  de  storios adi dia tr=
a=20
centos de anuas ex multa translati pes, e doci pes de multa natios. La max=
i famo za
storio es "Alibaba e tetri dek klepto pes", "Sindbad la maro pe". e "Aladi=
n e la
magika lampo"

La cefa nari jo  es pro uno farsi rego Scehreiar e sea sponsa fe Scehrezad=
. Pre multa=20
anua, tem  la rego pa detekti la no-fidi to de sea sponso fe, il pa komand=
a ke on aj cidi el
komo puni to. Po te, la rego sio gami iteri te neo virgo e lasi el  cidi f=
i   tem seqi ta
matino.

Scehrezad, la filo fe de vezir(islami arki ro) pa decidi de oferi  auto ho=
mo
sponsa fe  pro rego. Tem nokto de sea gami to, Scehrezad dici  uno nari jo=
  a rego, sed el ne
sio fini id. La rego   obligi fi de teni la vivi to de sea sponso fe, ka i=
l fo ami de audi la
fini jo  de storio. Tem seqi ta  nokto, po fini la storio, Scehrezad sio p=
roto zi uno hetera jo.
Homo te, el kontinui tra 1001 (kilo-mon) noktos.

</poem></div>

<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

*Detekti aj  bona akompani pe pro  tua viaji jo  , e  bona para pe pro  tu=
a domo  nova !

*Aj deveni pluta a aliena lo , e tu esti ke  tu es a nati-lando !
*e si tu es pova in nati-lando, tu sio vivi kom aliena !

*Mento granda , parli jo pusa !

*Tri homis meriti la simpato de Teo:
*1 la sofia pe vivi ta infra  tirano ta rego ,
*2 la debila pe infra  severa senioro,
*3 la jenerosa pe qi neci avara pe.

*Si tu ne geni amikos, tu faci multa enemikos .
*Si tu geni multa amikos, tu sio habi mala homis.
*So aj elekti kauti te tua amikos.

*La andro qi geni parto ko la fagi jo de sea amiko ,
*sura te  il deveni umila!

*A Teo la maxi mala pekos es menti to,
*testi to falsa e opresi   la  sin defendi pes !

*Es tri qalitos firma homi ta:
*la severa pe es la enemiko a la debila pe  ,
*la stupida pe es enemiko a  la sofia pe,
*la kaka pe es la enemiko a la  simpata pe .

*Si andro pra morta fi , maxi bona te , il sio  lasi tri ajos:
*1 Teni duri ta valutos pro doni a pova pes!
*2 ajos sienso ta pro doci demo
*3 sea filo bona  e auxi za!

</poem></div>


<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

Dici jos latina
---------------

ucundi sunt acti labores. (Cicero)

La ergos bona te faci dia es gluka.

Non omnia possumus omnes. (Lucilius)

Nos ne poti panto jos.

Nullus est liber tam malus, ut non aliqua parte prosit. (Plinius)

Nuli biblo  es tali mala, ke on ne poti uti id.

O tempora, o mores! (Cicero)

O tempos, O  mori jos!

Rem tene, verba sequentur! (Cato)

Aj teni ajo, parolos fu seqi.

Summum ius, summa iniuria.

Maxi justa es maxi no-justa.

Homines, dum docent, discunt. (Seneca)

Personos du apreni tem ili doci  .

Res non semper, spes mihi semper adest. (Ovidius)

Reala to  ne auxi mi, sed la espero semper .

</poem></div>

<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

Pueros laudi mia bela fe!
Ili dici: tu es carma za!
El ege ami uci parolos!=20
Sed regreti te! El pa oblivi mia nimo,
Ka la nimos de ela adori ros es multa!
Si el vidi mi, el sio ignori mi aroga te!
Klu intima ajos  inter nos ambi pra acidi:
Skopi, ete ridi, saluti,
Parli, promisi, e  fini te la inkontri to!

</poem></div>

<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

Jon: Papa, mi voli gami Susan, nosa amiko fe en para ta domo!
Patro: Nulitem! Ka mi prekron habi ami ta relato ko ela matro! El es tua s=
ibo fe!
Jon: Seqi te, mi sio gami Mary, nosa hetera para ta amiko fe!
Patro: Nulimode!! Plus te, mi prekron te habi ami ta relato ko ela matro! =
Mi peniti, el anke es tua sibo fe!

Jon pa kini a sea matro, e pa dici trista te: Papa pa refusi gami zi mi ko=
 Mary alo Susan, ka ili ambi es mia sibo fes!
Matro: Aj es felica! Tu poti gami alife qi tu desiri! Ka reala te, papa ne=
 es tua patro!

</poem></div>


<div class=3D"caxa"><poem>

O mia bela ami dia fe!
Qo doro mi sio doni a tu
In tua nati-di ?
Anelo alo brakaleto de oro ?
Mi ne gusti kadenos sirke tua manuas !!
Alo dulca mielo  de flami za kromo  komo mia kardio !!
Sed la vera mielo es in tua labios ruba !!
Alo vino? Sed in tota mundo, ne es vino
Komo uci, qi versi ex tua seduci za okus  !
Mi ne habi ajo plu  valui rita dei la spirito !
Aj preni! Mia  spirito es infra tua komando !

</poem></div>
=20


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


