---
authorName: Gary Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary Miller &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBR2JLaUxwOUFOQzJNd1dfZDZQek1RQys4RzBSS01iWmtmWnpTa2hCYkJCdzNnNFNQd0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2251
msgSnippet: Xavier- The discussion about the final vowel on Glosa words has happened
  many times.  / (+) U diskusi de u fini vokali de plu Glosa verba pa gene acide poli
nextInTime: 2252
nextInTopic: 2252
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1332601081'
prevInTime: 2250
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: vxlvMTlNnDpX9j103WOaZBLMTFt76gX1I5qtD4juM-h2bBJ5h_dqFEZ0OOA7k3ju_p9qLkfGxHZevEP6hdUngNLmvF-HtH5W
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Plu verba fini
topicId: 2251
userId: 486875979
---

Xavier-

The discussion about the final vowel on Glosa words has happened m=
any times.
\ /
(+) U diskusi de u fini vokali de plu Glosa verba pa gene ac=
ide poli kron.

The early Glosa textbooks had many variations; for example:=

\ /
(+) Plu proto Glosa sko bibli pa habe poli difere. Exempla:

alelo/ale=
li
diala/diali
koragio/koragi
negotia/negoti
nexi/nexu
sugo/suge
talo/tali
=

Of course, people asked what the right spellings were.
\ /
(+) Sura, plu l=
ekto-pe dice u qestio; plu korekti grafo es qo.

The response was the final=
 vowel is not important, and it is only
there to ease pronunciation.
\ /
(+=
) U reakti pa es; u fini vokali ne es importa, plus id es la simpli
de sti =
ma facili dice soni.

Hogben in INTERGLOSSA also did not try to keep the cl=
assical
conjugation/declension endings.
\ /
(+) Plus Hogben per INTERGLOSSA=
 ne tenta tena plu paleo Latino/Helena
ankti-verba/nomina-verba verba fini.=


His plan was verboids end in -E, nouns in -A or -I, modifiers in -O.
\ /
=
(+) An skema es; plu akti verba (verboids) habe u fini -E, nomina
verba -A =
alo -I, plu deskribe verba -O.

He also listed many exceptions and said the=
re is to be no difference
between verbs, nouns, and modifiers.
\ /
(+) An p=
lus lista poli excepti, e dice; debi es zero difere inter plu
akti, nomina =
e deskribe verba.

I love Latin, and find endings such as Stephan proposes =
to be beautiful.
\ /
(+) Mi este filo de Latino (u fo-paleo Roma lingua), e=
 detekti plu
tali verba fini; homo Stephan pre deklara, es veri kali.

I al=
so find that as I get older, I CAN'T REMEMBER ANY OF THEM ANYWAY!
\ /
(+) M=
i plus detekti, tem mi gene es ma paleo; MI NE POTE MEMO PANTO MU!

I simpl=
y prefer what is the easiest.
\ /
(+) Mi simpli ma amo plu ra; qi es maxi f=
acili.

Saluta,
_ _
/.
/\ =A0 Gary
#

