---
authorName: Localhosed
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Localhosed &lt;localhosed@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBRnkzMEV5azhOUTVLUT1TUzJ4WkJLbnkwS2VqWUFXbS1fZmtSd3VaZ2V4aFd6Y3BjUUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2316
msgSnippet: '... And ... Davis ... With the ... What  is the theory or method of the
  Longman dictionary? Which words have you found that would be important for adding
  to'
nextInTime: 2318
nextInTopic: 2318
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1336890099'
prevInTime: 2315
prevInTopic: 2310
profile: localhosed
replyTo: LIST
senderId: OWW9oyhOWhTpQh540Qo0YvV9ivUmdzkOhipyCU64mPQDKTKDeq1IaiAiqYiUR006KneHzMAEPcwW3hB50kT3YH9UrhPnSeeg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: GID'
topicId: 2302
userId: 455016325
---

xavi wrote :
>"Hi localhosed, thanks for your suggestions.
>You are right, many of those "common" words I mentioned are not so common.
And
>*cristal was an error.

>Anyway, I think lexicographers need to use both a frequency approach (like
Davis
>& Gardner's frequency list of 5000 words) and a theoretical
>approach (like the "Longman Defining Vocabulary" of 2200 essential words:
>http://longmanusahome.com/dictionaries/images/vocab_definitions.pdf ).
With the
>latter we get some essential words which may be not very frequent.
>Greetings.
>Xavi."

What  is the theory or method of the Longman dictionary?
Which words have you found that would be important for adding to the GID?
I tend to think of Mega GID as a separate reference for special purposes.
 A short phrase could be possible for aircraft. I need to think about it.

For Centra, I would consider many synonyms and near synonyms first before
adding a word.
I am still learning Glosa, so I don't have a very good guess about what
ideas are hard to express clearly or in less than 4 words (in the form of :
substantive  substantive de substantive - which can be much longer than a
single word if used often enough.
I looked a little in the Longman defining dictionary PDF that you linked,
and  it may be that there are some useful things that could be added from
it,
but I recognize lots of words from it that aren't necessary. These come in
pairs in english, that Glosa is supposed to treat as a single word. Glosa
is supposed to use syntax to make meaning clearer. For example  govern with
goverment, mess/messy, imagination/imaginary. I can recognize most words
from the pdf file you linked in Centra. So far I think Centra is a
particularly well organized group of ideas.
Some ideas seem 'ambiguous' more than others, but I haven't been too
terribly confused with Glosa so far. Short sentences help. Semicolons help.
Context helps. So does familiarity with Glosa.

I notice ideas like peti/kade/vola. Peti includes fall and fly. Vola does
not include fall, but includes fly. Kade only includes fall, but no other
meanings from the other two. But I think the reason for overlap may be
because the Glosa meanings need to fit with so many other languages also.
Other languages may handle "fall" differently. So I think that it could be
potentially destructive to add too many words to Centra, because if the
meanings are too specific, they could conflict with the general nature of
Glosa words. So that : the words would no longer be very general, and the
syntax that is supposed to handle creating specific meaning from general
meanings could be disrupted.

De "crystal"... info de ge-libe origi nu expliki :
http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?term=crystal

Coincidentally it lists cristal as the old english and old french
spellings. But, we are interested in pseudo (ge-muta) greek and latin
roots, and Mega GID already has some probably from these roots - kristal,
kristali
This probably matches with the use in the english word "cryogenics" .
(after a fashion, not meaning crystal here, but instead - frozen)
Mi pote face u frase ko Glosa; de id.
 "kristali minerali / kristali geo-ma / krista minerali / krista geo-ma /
geli minerali / geli geo-ma / geli lito / geli petro " Plu-ci habe ..
historical accuracy (maybe?),  semi-OK 'intuitive' meaning accuracy but not
good scientific accuracy. I like geli petro among those choices.
Mi amo 'geli petro' inter plu-la ge-elekti verba.

So I want to think some more on it.  What do you think  about crystal (or
anyone)?

Nu, mi menta habe MEGA fatiga.

Saluta, Vale.  (verba 'mega' es kali; mi doxo.)


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


