---
authorName: localhosed
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;localhosed&quot; &lt;localhosed@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENBR2JLaUxySDRwTDNvNEplRm9LV3pteXptdGNNNlJGU1lNQ0pEdTV4Vk41NGtNRXBKQUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGpxbWFnZisyMTMxQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2353
msgSnippet: 'This is from the 18 step guide, in step 12. An ne pa pote memo plu verba
  seqe-co an pa merka u verba-bibli. The guide translates that as : He couldn t'
nextInTime: 2354
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1338944847'
prevInTime: 2352
prevInTopic: 2349
profile: localhosed
replyTo: LIST
senderId: b_h9LK_gRquYNw4NEiLI01thrQYKc_kgnMTX1i5MrokKzMdmUrBX2MjEBPH8NLcuHTVeccXFsAgUKgic_zJ5EUS3W12FSR4VSRM
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: SE-AUTO'
topicId: 2348
userId: 455016325
---

This is from the 18 step guide, in step 12.
"An ne pa pote memo plu verba s=
eqe-co an pa merka u verba-bibli."
The guide translates that as : 
"He coul=
dn't remember the words so he bought a dictionary."

But according to my un=
derstanding of your explanation of 'an' usage, 'an' in this sentence will/c=
ould refer to someone else.

Posi u basi; u-ci info translati so, kausa u b=
uta pro dice.
The reason the guide translates it this way, I guess may be a=
 consequence of intended spoken word, because..

"An ne pa pote memo plu ve=
rba. Seqe-co, an pa merka u verba bibli."
..would be (possibly) valid Glosa=
. In other words, the second 'an' here would refer to the same man instead =
of someone else, because a new sentence started. Unless I misunderstand usa=
ge of the period mark. The only difference in speech would be a pause. Plea=
se let me know if I incorrectly used Glosa in any part of this sentence. Is=
 "Seqe-co, [...]" valid?

Though the second 'an' in these separate sentence=
s could also refer to someone else, if I were to treat Glosa like English, =
pronouns sometimes refer to subjects outside of the sentence they are in. I=
t could be said the same way in english or a variety of languages.

 My fir=
st thought about that is that it can be a disorganizing practice, but I don=
't know, really. There isn't enough context to determine who the second 'an=
' is, unless there was only one person in sight or in mind, or instead, two=
 or more men who happen to be involved in teaching with books, or holding d=
ictionaries.

Anti-co, mi fu akorda ko tu pre explika.
However, I will matc=
h/uphold/consent/accord with your previous explanation.

--- In glosalist@y=
ahoogroups.com, Gary Miller <gmillernd@...> wrote:
>
> Localhosed-
> 
> SE =
is a pronoun.
> -> SE es u vice-verba.
> 
> In Ian's story
> -> In stori de=
 Ian
> 
> U BOVI PA CIDE SE
> 
> would mean the bull killed himself.
> 
> T=
his would change the moral of the story.
> -> U-ci fu muta u stori sko.
> 
=
> U BOVI PA CIDE AN
> 
> would mean the bull killed the lion (not himself).=

> 
> (I was wondering if the bull killed himself to avoid being eaten by t=
he lion.)
> -> (Mi pa qestio se, qe u bovi pa cide se tende evita gene ge-v=
ora per u leo.)
> 
> SE always refers to the subject of the sentence.
> -> =
SE panto-kron tropi se a sti-verba de frase.
> 
> AUTO has two uses.
> -> A=
UTO habe bi uti.
> 
> 1)
> 
> It can be an adjective referring to the subje=
ct:
> -> Id posi es u deskribe-verba; qi tropi se a sti-verba:
> 
> AN DUCE=
 AUTO VAGONA A KRATI-DO =3D
> He drove his (own) car to the city hall.
> 
>=
 AN DUCE AN VAGONA A KRATI-DO =3D
> He drove his (someone else's) car to th=
e city hall.
> 
> 2)
> 
> AUTO also can be added for emphasis:
> -> Pe plus=
 pote dona AUTO tende dona ma forti:
> 
> U REGI AUTO FU DUCE UN ARME =3D
>=
 The king himself will lead the army.
> 
> Some languages use SE only in th=
e third person, some use it for first
> and second person as well. Glosa do=
es not have a rule regarding this:
> 
> MI TROPI A FENESTRA =3D
> MI TROPI =
MI A FENESTRA =3D
> MI TROPI SE A FENESTRA.
> 
>  * * *
> 
> Mi audi tu vid=
eo de puta-me sporta. U dice-soni es boni!
> 
> Saluta,
> _ _
> /.
> /\ =A0=
 Gary
> #
>


