---
authorName: Gary Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary Miller &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBR2JLaUxwNzNGQ0tjMWdqRkFBRzNGNmU2ZG1aPVNhMlJqczJ3WGFESEN2OHpKUU9XZ0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2354
msgSnippet: 'Localhosed- ... This is exactly the right attitude. TOLERANCE. If you
  understand what was said, the language is successful. Don t say, But you re '
nextInTime: 2355
nextInTopic: 2373
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1339037982'
prevInTime: 2353
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: aVDbX7vjgWptIK5wVA_HH6jFpAc48eVuqoI7Qn3Du33kZOZYOPpb-mqMFO4r8a5nq8YU8rIWpy9hxk6j8B85Gv52oCB6u27l
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: An ne pote memo- An merka
topicId: 2354
userId: 486875979
---

Localhosed-

>Mega gratia. I was hoping that someone who also speaks Glosa =
would acknowledge my speaking, so I am happy to hear from you about it.

>I=
 meant to put a note that explained that 'non-schematic' pronunciation is p=
robably acceptable to Wendy and Ron's plan for the language, since they inc=
luded examples with something like british accents. I don't want to discour=
age people who haven't heard the language before, if they hear it, and it s=
eems difficult..For the moment I'd like to improve my 'schematic' pronuncia=
tion because it is the 'basi' on which to compare other accents.

This is e=
xactly the right attitude. TOLERANCE. If you understand what
was said, the =
language is successful. Don't say, "But you're
pronunciation isn't perfect.=
"
-> U-ci es un exakti korekti este. TOLERA. Si pe logi u ra; ali-pe
dice, =
u lingua habe sucede. Ne sti dice: "Anti-co tu dice-soni ne es
perfekti."

=
>This is from the 18 step guide, in step 12.
>"An ne pa pote memo plu verba=
 seqe-co an pa merka u verba-bibli."

Except for the punctuation, this sent=
ence is correct.
-> Excepti plu inter-verba sema, u frase habe korekti.

TO=
LERANCE. Speakers of Western European languages seem to have a
different sy=
stem of reflexive pronouns than do most other languages
(including the orig=
inal Latin they came from). Therefore I would say
simply expect some differ=
ences here.
-> TOLERA. Plu dice-pe de plu uest-Europa lingua feno habe u di=
fere
sistema de plu re-flexi vice-verba, de maxi poli hetero lingua (klude
=
un origi lingua Latino; ex qi mu pa veni). Kausa-co mi dice; pe simpli
debi=
 cepti plu difere de u-ci.

I hate talking grammar. But if you really want =
to-
-> Mi este odio de dice de gramatika. Anti-co, si tu veri volu dice-

L=
ogically, since SE refers back to the subject of the sentence, SE can
never=
 be the subject of the sentence or even of a phrase. In the
phrase starting=
 with ANTI-CO, AN is the subject, taking the verb MERKA
and the object U VE=
RBA-BIBLI. It is simply context that makes AN the
same person in both phras=
es. It is only logical that a person who
needs help remembering words would=
 need a dictionary. When you think
of it, if I say HE, does the word refer =
to President Obama, Prince
Charles, or some bum sleeping in the street? How=
 does anyone know
exactly what the word HE is referring to? Since context- =
that is
simple common sense, not grammar- actually determines who or what a=

pronoun refers to

GRAMMAR REALLY DOESN'T HELP MUCH WITH ANYTHING!

Saluta=
,
_ _
/.
/\ =A0 Gary
#

