---
authorName: Gary Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary Miller &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBR2JLaUxwVGdyTnV6WF9xMzFLZnBMaXFqMFVOM2c1KzYwRGczREt1N21aXzhvNjVVUUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2387
msgSnippet: How can I know when he comes? asked Sandridge. ... When he comes, said
  Tonia, he remains two days, sometimes three. ... Gregorio, the small son of old
nextInTime: 2388
nextInTopic: 2388
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1344816566'
prevInTime: 2386
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: ybJJO7OHbghwr4iUDgkJNsUAZDFzKGZ2vGZGvlHvsJFv5UZwIc11E84cJvXH_OBq-ngro2j5uEtKRa15UzAcJF5HIDe_RaH9
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Cisco Kid 33
topicId: 2387
userId: 486875979
---

	"How can I know when he comes?" asked Sandridge.
> Sandridge qestio: "Mi fu ski; an veni, per qo mode?"

	"When he comes," said Tonia, "he remains two days, sometimes three.
> Tonia dice: "Kron an fu veni, an du resta bi di, uno-kron tri.

"Gregorio, the small son of old Luisa, the /lavendera/, has a swift pony.
> "Gregorio, u mikro fili de no-juve Luisa, u lava-fe, habe u tako, mikro equs.

"I will write a letter to thee and send it by him, saying how it will
be best to come upon him.
> "Mi fu grafo a tu u grama, e bali id per an; qi deskribe u maxi boni mode de kine anti an.

"By Gregorio will the letter come.
> "Per Gregorio, u grama fu veni.

"And bring many men with thee, and have much care, oh, dear red one,
for the rattlesnake is not quicker to strike than is '/El Chivato/,'
as they call him, to send a ball from his /pistola/."
> "Plus-co fu duce poli polica-an ko tu, e mega kura, O karo rubi-pe, kausa u serpenti ne es ma tako de morda, de 'U Kripti-an'-- iso mu nomina an-- es de bali u buleta ex manu pafili-me."

	"The Kid's handy with his gun, sure enough," admitted Sandridge, "but
when I come for him I shall come alone.
> Sandridge akorda dice: "U Juve-an es tekno de fusili-me, sura.  Anti-co, kron mi fu kine anti an, mi kine solo.

"I'll get him by myself or not at all.
> "Solo mi fu viole anti an, alo ne fu viole.

"The Cap wrote one or two things to me that make me want to do the
trick without any help.
> "U kapitana pa grafo a mi mono alo bi ra; qi sti; mi volu akti u-ci ergo minus auxi.

"You let me know when Mr. Kid arrives, and I'll do the rest."
> "Tu sti bali info, kron sr. Juve-an kine a ci.  Po-co mi fu akti u resta."

	"I will send you the message by the boy Gregorio," said the girl.
> U gina dice: "Mi fu bali a tu u grama per ju-an Gregorio.

"I knew you were braver than that small slayer of men who never smiles.
> "Mi pa ski; tu habe ma koragi de u-la cide-pe; qi zero-kron monstra u labia-ridi.

"How could I ever have thought I cared for him?"
> Mi pa doxo per qo mode; mi filo an?"

