---
authorName: localhosed
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;localhosed&quot; &lt;localhosed@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENBR2JLaUxwVGdyTnV6WF9xMzFLZnBMaXFqMFVOM2c1KzYwRGczREt1N21aXzhvNjVVUUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGswYTI0dCtubm4wQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2388
msgSnippet: Tu pa tipo - I knew you were braver than that small slayer of men who
  never smiles. ... Qe semani small ? Posi debili spiritu , algo spiritu alo vice
nextInTime: 2389
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1344834525'
prevInTime: 2387
prevInTopic: 2387
profile: localhosed
replyTo: LIST
senderId: BxfuLZMrHYYszEM8DmyuWVgl0wcnmaR3O_O-FNScrrf6ELTVUAgv-IJgd_WvHVFuFx0KtnbKqM7vFoYAo4TmjeouENpcA5lx3T4
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Cisco Kid 33'
topicId: 2387
userId: 455016325
---

Tu pa tipo -
 '"I knew you were braver than that small slayer of men who ne=
ver smiles.
> > "Mi pa ski; tu habe ma koragi de u-la cide-pe; qi zero-kron=
 monstra u labia-ridi.

Qe semani 'small'? Posi 'debili spiritu', 'algo spi=
ritu' alo vice 'non-alti statura' ?

Saluta, vale, et cetera, et cetera, ad=
 infiniti

(Ko ridi)

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Gary Miller <gmille=
rnd@...> wrote:
>
> 	"How can I know when he comes?" asked Sandridge.
> > S=
andridge qestio: "Mi fu ski; an veni, per qo mode?"
> 
> 	"When he comes," =
said Tonia, "he remains two days, sometimes three.
> > Tonia dice: "Kron an=
 fu veni, an du resta bi di, uno-kron tri.
> 
> "Gregorio, the small son of=
 old Luisa, the /lavendera/, has a swift pony.
> > "Gregorio, u mikro fili =
de no-juve Luisa, u lava-fe, habe u tako, mikro equs.
> 
> "I will write a =
letter to thee and send it by him, saying how it will
> be best to come upo=
n him.
> > "Mi fu grafo a tu u grama, e bali id per an; qi deskribe u maxi =
boni mode de kine anti an.
> 
> "By Gregorio will the letter come.
> > "Per=
 Gregorio, u grama fu veni.
> 
> "And bring many men with thee, and have mu=
ch care, oh, dear red one,
> for the rattlesnake is not quicker to strike t=
han is '/El Chivato/,'
> as they call him, to send a ball from his /pistola=
/."
> > "Plus-co fu duce poli polica-an ko tu, e mega kura, O karo rubi-pe,=
 kausa u serpenti ne es ma tako de morda, de 'U Kripti-an'-- iso mu nomina =
an-- es de bali u buleta ex manu pafili-me."
> 
> 	"The Kid's handy with hi=
s gun, sure enough," admitted Sandridge, "but
> when I come for him I shall=
 come alone.
> > Sandridge akorda dice: "U Juve-an es tekno de fusili-me, s=
ura.  Anti-co, kron mi fu kine anti an, mi kine solo.
> 
> "I'll get him by=
 myself or not at all.
> > "Solo mi fu viole anti an, alo ne fu viole.
> 
>=
 "The Cap wrote one or two things to me that make me want to do the
> trick=
 without any help.
> > "U kapitana pa grafo a mi mono alo bi ra; qi sti; mi=
 volu akti u-ci ergo minus auxi.
> 
> "You let me know when Mr. Kid arrives=
, and I'll do the rest."
> > "Tu sti bali info, kron sr. Juve-an kine a ci.=
  Po-co mi fu akti u resta."
> 
> 	"I will send you the message by the boy =
Gregorio," said the girl.
> > U gina dice: "Mi fu bali a tu u grama per ju-=
an Gregorio.
> 
> "I knew you were braver than that small slayer of men who=
 never smiles.
> > "Mi pa ski; tu habe ma koragi de u-la cide-pe; qi zero-k=
ron monstra u labia-ridi.
> 
> "How could I ever have thought I cared for h=
im?"
> > Mi pa doxo per qo mode; mi filo an?"
>


