---
authorName: Gary Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary Miller &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBR2JLaUxyczI5WDhkNW1ZVExlZkEwd3BnZFRzUkVKWGozYnZucm1uVzBqRWZLc1RZd0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2407
msgSnippet: Considering this extremely courteous idiosyncrasy of the Kid and the pride
  he took in it, one can perceive that the solution of the problem that was presented
nextInTime: 2408
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1348961045'
prevInTime: 2406
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Tec78a6S3uuEjiROzaUYpA5OXIReVwqLNTqLSIiTPHH5ldhLQnpIJDmO3ugolxTpkd1RWt1KQaE6lAGwvsIv0MN__ZkBmter
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Cisco Kid 39
topicId: 2407
userId: 486875979
---

	Considering this extremely courteous idiosyncrasy of the Kid and the
pride he took in it, one can perceive that the solution of the problem
that was presented to him by what he saw and heard from his
hiding-place in the pear that afternoon (at least as to one of the
actors) must have been obscured by difficulties.
>  Tem puta de u-la forti gentili idio-ra de Juve-an, e de u boni, an este de id, pe pote logi; u solve de u turba, an gene per skope e audi ex kripto-lo in kaktus po meso-di (sura per mono homi) sto debi es no-klari kausa este.

And yet one could not think of the Kid overlooking little matters of that kind.
> Para-co pe ne imagina; u Juve-an sio ne logi plu tali ra.

	At the end of the short twilight they gathered around a supper of
/frijoles/, goat steaks, canned peaches, and coffee, by the light of a
lantern in the /jacal/.
> Kron brevi fini de di-foto, mu kolekti se peri vora ex FRIJOLES, karni ex kapri, ge-konserva persika, e kafa, infra foto ex lampa in mikro domi.

Afterward, the ancestor, his flock corralled, smoked a cigarette and
became a mummy in a grey blanket.
> Po-co u-la fo-paleo-pe, ko kapri grega in tena-lo, fumi u cigareta, e feno es u morta soma, ge-involve in somni-te.

Tonia washed the few dishes while the Kid dried them with the
flour-sacking towel.
> Tonia lava panto de oligo vora-ru, tem u Juve-an sti sika mu per vaku farina saka.

Her eyes shone; she chatted volubly of the inconsequent happenings of
her small world since the Kid's last visit; it was as all his other
home-comings had been.
> Fe bi oku feno dona foto.  Fe poli dice de plu non-importa acide de auto mikro munda po u pre visita de Juve-an.  Es iso, an panto re-veni pa es.

