---
authorName: Gary Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary Miller &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBR2JLaUxvM3hyQ09MTmRFNGtzaTR0cGh2RUR3RF9BMG1GOVgxZXFwVDBlN1IrVThxQUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2409
msgSnippet: '... Consider: EN: I am cold. (GL: Mi este frigi.) Translate directly,
  for example, into German: DE: *Ich bin kalt. But it doesn t mean the same as the
  English!'
nextInTime: 2410
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1350137648'
prevInTime: 2408
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: isRTEFQ_PVXDGDVerXO31_Ta54EJ6OIFuRmtsTauTCxzW2oFomZMnzs1Yeh3pGPZwFuZqZKxu70zBPMYuwxVQg-Q9nCQu8Yz
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Habe-Es, mero bi
topicId: 2409
userId: 486875979
---

|> THE PROBLEM: DIFFERENT LANGUAGES, DIFFERENT DEFINITIONS OF BE

Consider:

EN: I am cold.
(GL: Mi este frigi.)

Translate directly, for example, into German:

DE: *Ich bin kalt.

But it doesn't mean the same as the English! It means, "I am
cold-hearted." Instead German (and many other languages, including
Esperanto) uses the structure:

DE: Mir ist kalt.
EN (literally): "For me it is cold."

Which structure is more logical? I hate to sound like President
Clinton, but it all depends on your definition of IS. The English word
BE simply does not have the same meaning as the German word SEIN.

To complicate things further, some languages (for example, Hebrew,
Russian, Chinese) often omit the word IS, saying simply, "I student."

How can we come up with a universal definition of the word BE? The
last solution one wants to use in making an international auxiliary
language is, "Just do it like in MY language."

|> HOGBEN'S SOLUTION: MATHEMATICAL LOGIC

In inventing Interglossa, Hogben defined ES (then EQUE) as "=."
Therefore saying:

GL: *An es pato.

is illogical, because a person does not equal a quality. However:

GL: An es u pato andro.

is logical, because here a person = a person.

Other possibilities using verboids logically produce:

GL: An habe (u) pato.
"He has (an) illness."

GL: An este pato.
"He feels sick."

The hope is that the more universally understood logics of mathematics
will lead to a more universal use of ES.

|> THE SECOND MEANING OF ES

In Euro-Glosa (the book _18 Steps_) ES was also used to mean EXIST. For example:

GL: (Il) es poli speci farmako.
"There are (exist) many kinds of drugs."

(The IL was an impersonal pronoun borrowed from Interlingua, but has
since been dropped.)

I have used this construction much in the past; a more logical
structure, however- and I will pay more careful attention to this in
the future- may be:

GL: Pe pote detekti poli speci farmako.

This would prevent the word ES from having two meanings.

|> IN CONCLUSION

1) If you don't want to use ES/HABE/ESTE in this manner, just realize
that it may be misunderstood by peoples of different languages. I
always say, "Expect variations." Just keep using Glosa!

2) Applying a mathematical logic to the international language problem
may help us to find a culturally neutral definition for the word BE.

