---
authorName: "T\xF3th L\xE1szl\xF3"
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: =?iso-8859-2?q?T=F3th=20L=E1szl=F3=20?= &lt;leslie_toth@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAyLjAzMTIyMDE1NDg1NDIwMDY5MTE1OThAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 242
msgSnippet: Hi everybody, I am well up in Esperanto, but I am open-eyed even to another
  planed languages. So, I fortunatelly met the Glosa on the Internet, and some
nextInTime: 243
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1071931734'
prevInTime: 241
prevInTopic: 0
profile: leslie_toth
replyTo: LIST
senderId: MX9tRjfJOl5uyO4gRXh5dBKFyt718Wk7Z67BLJdG4sx7qGU6o-HlyzoqHgXrAJLtt_-0IQEuJgwEHQ7rvr4bij8ZPx2FhTHcanUL62qslf12ITRWPyJuMtPjKU4vD9ma5xhEJ5Rz3oeq
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Inquiry
topicId: 242
userId: 21276468
---


Hi everybody,


I am well up in Esperanto, but I am open-eyed even to anot=
her planed languages.
So, I fortunatelly met the Glosa on the Internet, and=
 some questions rised in me about the Glosa.
I found some good features in =
it, but I would like to know certain details of the use of  verbs in this l=
anguage.

First of all, I will be very happy if someone of you would be so =
kind to skim sthrough the word document about the conjugation of verbs in E=
speranto that I have put on Internet at:

 "www32.brinkster.com/leslietoth/=
Glosa"

And then, we could deal with the differences of the used solutions =
in that two planned languages.

Or, if there is somebody who already is wel=
l up in Esperanto, than it would by more simple to discuss about the differ=
ences between the two languages..

I could imagine a common solution that w=
ould combine the better solutions from the two languages.
For example, Glos=
a could adopt that system, in which all the nouns would have the same endin=
g (ex. "-o"),  all the adjectives would have the same ending (ex. "-a"),  a=
ll the verbs would have the same ending (ex. "-i"), and  all the adverbs wo=
uld have the same ending (ex. "-e"). This solution would allow to the users=
 to make nouns from verbs, adjectives, and adverbs; - to make  verbs from n=
ouns, adjectives and adverbs; - to make adjectives from nouns, adverbs and =
verbs; - to make adverbs from nouns, verbs and adjectives as it works very =
vell in Esperanto. Of course, you are right to convert them only if it has =
meaning. 

best wishes,
Laslo
