---
authorName: Gary
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUwRjM2MkUyLjYwMTA2MDNAZ21haWwuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2433
msgSnippet: He waited almost an hour before two figures came out of the /jacal/. ...
  One, in man s clothes, quickly mounted the horse and galloped past the wagon-shed
nextInTime: 2434
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1358127842'
prevInTime: 2432
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: YZ54g0fOqLUE6tCHAEVvz3A5d584Ka7jFVJ4wHy_gHX1EijxD3iiD5Daj1ViJbz5-0dIHzXxbIQskedZDN_L8yU
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Cisco Kid 47
topicId: 2433
userId: 486875979
---

     He waited almost an hour before two figures came out of the /jacal/.
 > An pa atende proxi mono horo, kron bi forma kine ex domi.

One, in man's clothes, quickly mounted the horse and galloped past the 
wagon-shed toward the crossing and village.
 > Mono, plu andro vesti epi se, tako skende epi equs, e dromo ultra 
vagona-do a trans-lo e viki.

And then the other figure, in skirt, waist, and mantilla over its head, 
stepped out into the faint moonlight, gazing after the rider.
 > Po-co u forma bi, tunika, supra-ve e kefa-te epi se, gresi in debili 
luna-foto, tem skope po viagia-pe.

Sandridge thought he would take his chance then before Tonia rode back.
 > Sandridge puta; kron an habe un okasio, pre Tonia re-veni.

He fancied she might not care to see it.
 > An doxo; fe ne volu vide u-ci.

     "Throw up your hands," he ordered loudly, stepping out of the 
wagon- shed with his Winchester at his shoulder.
 > An fo-fono voci, tem gresi es vagona-do ko Winchester fusili-me: "Sti 
ana tu bi manu."

     There was a quick turn of the figure, but no movement to obey, so 
the ranger pumped in the bullets--one--two--three--and then twice more; 
for you never could be too sure of bringing down the Cisco Kid.
 > U forma tako tropi se, anti-co es zero moti de obe, kausa-co u 
tele-polica-an fusili per plu buleta-- mono-- bi-- tri, kron plus bi.  
Kausa pe ne pote este excesi kura de sto u Cisco Juve-an.

There was no danger of missing at ten paces, even in that half moonlight.
 > Es zero risko de falsi fusili trans deka gradu, klu in hemi luna foto.


