---
authorName: Gary
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUwRkM4RkE3LjUwMjAzMDFAZ21haWwuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2434
msgSnippet: The old ancestor, asleep on his blanket, was awakened by the shots. ...
  Listening further, he heard a great cry from some man in mortal distress or anguish,
nextInTime: 2435
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1358729127'
prevInTime: 2433
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: k3pFP09mWiKQEGOwk55X6EcmdRJRF3Ok1oQXbyXDuPBfjg6z0xvV9Q43gj6VbOlnd5m_-8FX_URAmqd8LbbWIog
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Cisco Kid- ultima
topicId: 2434
userId: 486875979
---

     The old ancestor, asleep on his blanket, was awakened by the shots.
 > Un fo-paleo-an, tem somni in soma-te, gene vigi kausa plu fusili.

Listening further, he heard a great cry from some man in mortal distress 
or anguish, and rose up grumbling at the disturbing ways of moderns.
 > Tem plus audi, an gene u fono de mega fo-voci ex uno andro ko 
sti-morta turba alo algo, e sti sta, tem kritici de plu sti-turba more 
de plu neo-pe.

     The tall, red ghost of a man burst into the /jacal/, reaching one 
hand, shaking like a /tule/ reed, for the lantern hanging on its nail.
 > Un alti, rubi an-spiritu subito kine in domi, e tensio mono manu, tem 
seiso homo u kana-fito, tende gene u lampa epi aku.

The other spread a letter on the table.
 > Un manu bi extende u grama epi tabla.

     "Look at this letter, Perez," cried the man.
 > Un andro voci: "Sti vide u-ci grama, Perez.

"Who wrote it?"
 > "Qo-pe pa grafo id?"

     "/Ah, Dios/! it is Senor Sandridge," mumbled the old man, approaching.
 > U no-juve andro no-klari dice, tem veni; "O, Teo!  Es sr. Sandridge.

"/Pues, senor/, that letter was written by '/El Chivato/,' as he is 
called--by the man of Tonia.
 > "O, Sinior, u-ci grama pa gene grafo ex 'u Kripto-pe,' mu nomina an 
tali-- un andro de Tonia.

"They say he is a bad man; I do not know.
 > "Mu dice; an es u mali andro.  Mi ne ski.

"While Tonia slept he wrote the letter and sent it by this old hand of 
mine to Domingo Sales to be brought to you.
 > "Tem Tonia somni, an pa grafo u grama, e bali id per mi paleo manu a 
Domingo Sales, tende sti veni a tu id.

"Is there anything wrong in the letter?
 > "Qe es uno falsi ra in grama?

"I am very old; and I did not know.
 > "Mi habe poli anua.  Plus-co mi ne pa ski.

"/Valgame Dios/! it is a very foolish world; and there is nothing in the 
house to drink-- nothing to drink."
 > "Teo auxi!  Es u stupidi munda.  Plus-co es zero bibe in domi-- zero 
bibe."

     Just then all that Sandridge could think of to do was to go outside 
and throw himself face downward in the dust by the side of his 
humming-bird, of whom not a feather fluttered.
 > Kron, panto-ra, Sandridge pote akti, es kine ex domi, e bali 
facia-kata se topo latu de auto trokili; de qi zero pina gene moti.

He was not a /caballero/ by instinct, and he could not understand the 
niceties of revenge.
 > An ne natura es u "gentili equs-an."  Kausa-co an ne pote logi plu 
desira ra de persona puni.

     A mile away the rider who had ridden past the wagon-shed struck up 
a harsh, untuneful song, the words of which began:
 > Bi kilometra tele, un equs-pe; qi pa kine ultra vagona-do, sti akti u 
krudi, kako kanta; plu verba de qi habe u proto:

     Don't you monkey with my Lulu girl
     > Si tu akti ko mi gina Lu,

     Or I'll tell you what I'll do--
     > Mi fu akti anti tu.


