---
authorName: David
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;David&quot; &lt;daveyporter@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEY1NTg0REZFOEIyNzRCRUY5REM0MjdDQzVBOUQ1MkJDQGRhdmlkPg==
headers.referencesHeader: PGtlMHJoZytqam11QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 2442
msgSnippet: Kim, The problem for Glosa as I see it is that a)  Unfortunately Wendy,
  who is the authority for the language is not active (I have been in contact with
  her
nextInTime: 2443
nextInTopic: 2444
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1359215144'
prevInTime: 2441
prevInTopic: 2441
profile: ecclesonc
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 0eHLOt3Ko1QWIykdLwaT9AeWVWp_tKU6TuLILM0jrrbAPJbdpr8BVtTJhHA2oXUfERCHcHnvqTClYlUB_8g4L1a9KZrqQmYrDA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: official descriptions of the Glosa language'
topicId: 2437
userId: 335799855
---

Kim,

The problem for Glosa as I see it is that a)  Unfortunately Wendy, who is the "authority" for the language is not active (I have been in contact with her for years although not recently but I  am aware of her health issues) and - obviously - the loss of Ron Clarke was a great blow to her and for the progress of the language:  b) Consequently the language has sort of come to a stand-still and until such time as its future can be organised in some way or another it will remain in limbo.   This is a great shame as Glosa has so much potential and is a joy to learn.   In conclusion I think that to follow the basic rules as origninally set down and to use the inet dictionaries as produced by Marcel Springer are the best tools for learning the language until b) comes about and any amendments etc would be univerally accepted.
   Regards,    Davidjp 


----- Original Message ----- 
  From: Kim 
  To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com 
  Sent: Saturday, January 26, 2013 3:08 PM
  Subject: [glosalist] Re: official descriptions of the Glosa language


    


  Gary,

  Gratia. Your answer is clear and unequivocal. I also read "Sti Logi" - thanks very much for that.

  I'm sorry to learn Wendy Ashby has been sick. Also, Marcel Springer has mentioned she is good about answering questions by mail.

  Glosa-pe,

  Continuing with the search for official defining documents... By extension of Gary's statements, any works written in or translated into Glosa by Ms. Ashby would constitute authoritative examples and usage. I have already seen that the language has evolved, so I would imagine we would give more weight to later works than earlier, if differences were noticed among writings (speaking here of works by her and/or Ronald Clark). I see that "18 Steps" was written between 1985-1992, so this sets a point of reference.

  For some of her Glosa documents there is fortunately a date recorded; others such as "Un Hedo Prince" (which I just finished, and enjoyed very much seeing the concepts in action) do not have a date. :(

  Moving to a related point, if we then read the works of others, and see differences in word order or style that seem contrary to the creators' works (also taking into account the year of writing), then we should be able to confidently see them as incorrect (or in some cases, correct but not the best style) -- right?

  Again, as said at the start of the thread, some Glosa works established the wrong rules or usage at the start of my Glosa adventure. I am seeking clarification before I go further, and for others to come.

  In brief then,
  - Ashby and Clark's works are the gold standard.
  - Their *later* works, especially 1985 and after, are what we hold correct, when differences are seen in their earlier works.
  - Their works establish the official usage, wherever differences are seen in *other* peoples' works.

  Correct? Other thoughts?

  Gratia e Saluta!!
  Kim

  --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Gary" wrote:
  >
  > Kim--
  > 
  > Wendy Ashby is the author of 18 STEPS and the owner of the Glosa language. Her work has been slow lately because of illness. She has the sole rights to make any changes to Glosa. I don't think she has e-mail at the present time, but she is very good about answering questions if you send her "snail mail." Her address can be found at www.glosa.org.
  > 
  > I have tried to answer some of these questions in my blog: glos-avanti.blogspot.com and click on "Sti Logi."
  > 
  > Saluta,
  > _ _
  > /.
  > /\ Gary
  > #
  >



  

--
I am using the free version of SPAMfighter.
SPAMfighter has removed 6140 of my spam emails to date.
Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len

Do you have a slow PC? Try a Free scan http://www.spamfighter.com/SLOW-PCfighter?cid=sigen


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


