---
authorName: Kim
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kim&quot; &lt;kimesperanto@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGtlMXZlZCtnYW5zQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2444
msgSnippet: 'Davidjp, Gratia de tu responde, and for the mention of Marcel s excellent
  dictionaries.  I had been assuming they have an official approval attached to them. '
nextInTime: 2445
nextInTopic: 2445
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1359249677'
prevInTime: 2443
prevInTopic: 2442
profile: kimglosa
replyTo: LIST
senderId: AdHLXcabYotapSYbYk_Xke-1BNkufeuXLC6Re6YRAHqLW8F4dZmz9DKhoKzjc3dSnV7HfDYhqZKJZfnRbmVC4dlXdOTkbJo
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: official descriptions of the Glosa language'
topicId: 2437
userId: 547631289
---






Davidjp,

Gratia de tu responde, and for the mention of Marcel's excel=
lent dictionaries.  I had been assuming they have an official approval atta=
ched to them.

Although you didn't specifically comment on my working assum=
ptions, I imagine you would have mentioned any concerns you had with them.
=

Even though there are a few minor confusing language usages that I'll be a=
sking about, for now I am quite content to learn and use Glosa at its curre=
nt definition.  It *is* a joy to learn.  Coming from Esperanto, it is so re=
freshing not to have to parse through a word like rugxigita (rugx-ig-i-ta) =
=3D having been caused to be red =3D having been reddened.


Glosa-pe,

If =
anyone else has feedback to my 3 assumptions just below, or the earliest qu=
estions, please do comment.

Saluta,
Kim


--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com=
, "David"  wrote:
>
> Kim,
> 
> The problem for Glosa as I see it is that a=
)  Unfortunately Wendy, who is the "authority" for the language is not acti=
ve (I have been in contact with her for years although not recently but I  =
am aware of her health issues) and - obviously - the loss of Ron Clarke was=
 a great blow to her and for the progress of the language:  b) Consequently=
 the language has sort of come to a stand-still and until such time as its =
future can be organised in some way or another it will remain in limbo.   T=
his is a great shame as Glosa has so much potential and is a joy to learn. =
  In conclusion I think that to follow the basic rules as origninally set d=
own and to use the inet dictionaries as produced by Marcel Springer are the=
 best tools for learning the language until b) comes about and any amendmen=
ts etc would be univerally accepted.
>    Regards,    Davidjp 
> 
> 
> ----=
- Original Message ----- 
>   From: Kim 
>   To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com =

>   Sent: Saturday, January 26, 2013 3:08 PM
>   Subject: [glosalist] Re: =
official descriptions of the Glosa language
> 
> 
>     
> 
> 
>   Gary,
> =

>   Gratia. Your answer is clear and unequivocal. I also read "Sti Logi" -=
 thanks very much for that.
> 
>   I'm sorry to learn Wendy Ashby has been =
sick. Also, Marcel Springer has mentioned she is good about answering quest=
ions by mail.
> 
>   Glosa-pe,
> 
>   Continuing with the search for offici=
al defining documents... By extension of Gary's statements, any works writt=
en in or translated into Glosa by Ms. Ashby would constitute authoritative =
examples and usage. I have already seen that the language has evolved, so I=
 would imagine we would give more weight to later works than earlier, if di=
fferences were noticed among writings (speaking here of works by her and/or=
 Ronald Clark). I see that "18 Steps" was written between 1985-1992, so thi=
s sets a point of reference.
> 
>   For some of her Glosa documents there i=
s fortunately a date recorded; others such as "Un Hedo Prince" (which I jus=
t finished, and enjoyed very much seeing the concepts in action) do not hav=
e a date. :(
> 
>   Moving to a related point, if we then read the works of=
 others, and see differences in word order or style that seem contrary to t=
he creators' works (also taking into account the year of writing), then we =
should be able to confidently see them as incorrect (or in some cases, corr=
ect but not the best style) -- right?
> 
>   Again, as said at the start of=
 the thread, some Glosa works established the wrong rules or usage at the s=
tart of my Glosa adventure. I am seeking clarification before I go further,=
 and for others to come.
> 
>   In brief then,
>   - Ashby and Clark's work=
s are the gold standard.
>   - Their *later* works, especially 1985 and aft=
er, are what we hold correct, when differences are seen in their earlier wo=
rks.
>   - Their works establish the official usage, wherever differences a=
re seen in *other* peoples' works.
> 
>   Correct? Other thoughts?
> 
>   G=
ratia e Saluta!!
>   Kim
> 
>   --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Gary" wr=
ote:
>   >
>   > Kim--
>   > 
>   > Wendy Ashby is the author of 18 STEPS a=
nd the owner of the Glosa language. Her work has been slow lately because o=
f illness. She has the sole rights to make any changes to Glosa. I don't th=
ink she has e-mail at the present time, but she is very good about answerin=
g questions if you send her "snail mail." Her address can be found at www.g=
losa.org.
>   > 
>   > I have tried to answer some of these questions in my=
 blog: glos-avanti.blogspot.com and click on "Sti Logi."
>   > 
>   > Salut=
a,
>   > _ _
>   > /.
>   > /\ Gary
>   > #
>   >
> 
> 
> 
>   
> 
> --
> I=
 am using the free version of SPAMfighter.
> SPAMfighter has removed 6140 o=
f my spam emails to date.
> Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamf=
ighter.com/len
> 
> Do you have a slow PC? Try a Free scan http://www.spamf=
ighter.com/SLOW-PCfighter?cid=3Dsigen
> 
> 
> [Non-text portions of this me=
ssage have been removed]
>



