---
authorName: Kim
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kim&quot; &lt;kimesperanto@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGtmaGllbithOGdmQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2449
msgSnippet: Karo Glosa-pe, I have been reading the Glosa Internet Dictionary much
  lately, and have a program that can parse glen.txt .  A huge thank you to Marcel
  and the
nextInTime: 2450
nextInTopic: 2450
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1360809239'
prevInTime: 2448
prevInTopic: 0
profile: kimglosa
replyTo: LIST
senderId: oBbuaKeCDJvGyYBrX9S5trv6PUaW7FG-A7UMH0OPNfJXqYBEeWD7P-0x_PQ883PdW_q_UpdZuTLccpYgs5CtR1bG5jsfgKY
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Rules and Guidelines:  word order with &quot;u&quot;'
topicId: 2449
userId: 547631289
---

Karo Glosa-pe,

I have been reading the Glosa Internet Dictionary much late=
ly, and have a program that can parse 'glen.txt'.  A huge thank you to Marc=
el and the other contributors for their work!  When my program (written in =
Python) is sufficiently developed, I can make it available, if desired.  My=
 initial goal is to produce an HTML version that has bold main entries.  I =
plan to rerun it as new releases appear from Marcel.

The next question I h=
ave for you all concerns the grammar rules of Glosa.  I know that Wendy Ash=
by and Ron Clark rarely stated them.  Learning from examples, as presented =
in "18 Steps", is an excellent way to learn.  But afterwards when I have a =
question about usage, it is painful to scan through lots of text to discove=
r if usage X is ever done.  So I would like to try to deduce what rules of =
the grammar there seem to be, as well as what are simply guidelines, and pr=
esent them to you all for review and correction.  Loosely, a 'rule' is *alw=
ays* followed, and a 'guideline' is *usually* followed, and may have to do =
with good style (however that is defined) more so than correctness.  (I hop=
e not to get into prescriptionist vs descriptionist discussions. :)

For ex=
ample, a rule would be:   "u" always precedes the noun it modifies, possibl=
y with intervening modifiers.


So, to begin:  is this a rule?

   1. When =
'u' is used with a noun that also has one or more adjectives, "u" always pr=
ecedes the adjectives.  This applies equally to "un" and "plu".

         C=
orrect:    un hedo prince       u mega kali religio-do
         Incorrect: =
 hedo un prince       mega u kali religio-do

I scanned "18 Steps" and did =
not find any counterexamples, but I could have missed one, and even absence=
 there is not a proof.  Please send your thoughts, corrections, discussion.=
  For now I am trying to stay strictly with the documents produced by W.A. =
and R.C from 1985 onwards, i.e., the official defining docs of the language=
.  I know outside of that there seems to be a lot of variation... 

Saluta =
e Gratia!
Kim



