---
authorName: Gary
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Gary&quot; &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGtmaGllbithOGdmQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGtmbnBmOSs3M2lmQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2450
msgSnippet: 'Kim-- A good start is http://glosa.org/en/gramm.htm and look under Syntax.
  Saluta, _ _ /. /   Gary #'
nextInTime: 2451
nextInTopic: 2452
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1361013033'
prevInTime: 2449
prevInTopic: 2449
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: O42G4yFjee4ISRncWL6ans7n8Fatmx2EpMAC4VNjTSRhSM7ocWOlTKQBdel3zx_b_rd5zQfoOKHH0QBO4Xz-Whc2kw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '3'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Rules and Guidelines:  word order with &quot;u&quot;'
topicId: 2449
userId: 486875979
---

Kim--

A good start is

http://glosa.org/en/gramm.htm

and look under "Synt=
ax."

Saluta,

_ _
/.
/\   Gary
#

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Kim" =
<kimesperanto@...> wrote:
>
> Karo Glosa-pe,
> 
> I have been reading the G=
losa Internet Dictionary much lately, and have a program that can parse 'gl=
en.txt'.  A huge thank you to Marcel and the other contributors for their w=
ork!  When my program (written in Python) is sufficiently developed, I can =
make it available, if desired.  My initial goal is to produce an HTML versi=
on that has bold main entries.  I plan to rerun it as new releases appear f=
rom Marcel.
> 
> The next question I have for you all concerns the grammar =
rules of Glosa.  I know that Wendy Ashby and Ron Clark rarely stated them. =
 Learning from examples, as presented in "18 Steps", is an excellent way to=
 learn.  But afterwards when I have a question about usage, it is painful t=
o scan through lots of text to discover if usage X is ever done.  So I woul=
d like to try to deduce what rules of the grammar there seem to be, as well=
 as what are simply guidelines, and present them to you all for review and =
correction.  Loosely, a 'rule' is *always* followed, and a 'guideline' is *=
usually* followed, and may have to do with good style (however that is defi=
ned) more so than correctness.  (I hope not to get into prescriptionist vs =
descriptionist discussions. :)
> 
> For example, a rule would be:   "u" alw=
ays precedes the noun it modifies, possibly with intervening modifiers.
> 
=
> 
> So, to begin:  is this a rule?
> 
>    1. When 'u' is used with a noun=
 that also has one or more adjectives, "u" always precedes the adjectives. =
 This applies equally to "un" and "plu".
> 
>          Correct:    un hedo =
prince       u mega kali religio-do
>          Incorrect:  hedo un prince  =
     mega u kali religio-do
> 
> I scanned "18 Steps" and did not find any =
counterexamples, but I could have missed one, and even absence there is not=
 a proof.  Please send your thoughts, corrections, discussion.  For now I a=
m trying to stay strictly with the documents produced by W.A. and R.C from =
1985 onwards, i.e., the official defining docs of the language.  I know out=
side of that there seems to be a lot of variation... 
> 
> Saluta e Gratia!=

> Kim
>



