---
authorName: Kim
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kim&quot; &lt;kimesperanto@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGtmbnBmOSs3M2lmQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGtmdjB2MStudmZoQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2452
msgSnippet: "Gary, Thanks, I am in the process of reading that now. I see that Robin\
  \ Gaskell authored that paper, and I noticed it has the mark \xA9 Glosa Education"
nextInTime: 2453
nextInTopic: 2453
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1361250081'
prevInTime: 2451
prevInTopic: 2450
profile: kimglosa
replyTo: LIST
senderId: XcgaYONmvxAdpvFy7dsg_o6aN6gcyVd5377u1ozGxhHvVm1Hxdz0pJxaLQjT2br6azjenF6UnSwhcSi7Jl-NpxjmvejvvJo
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Rules and Guidelines:  word order with &quot;u&quot;'
topicId: 2449
userId: 547631289
---


Gary,

Thanks, I am in the process of reading that now.

I see that Robin =
Gaskell authored that paper, and I noticed it has the mark "=A9 Glosa Educa=
tion Organisation, Richmond U.K., 1999" at the bottom.   Do you know - does=
 the latter mean that Wendy Ashby reviewed this and gave it 'official' stat=
us?

I ask because some statements do not at first glance seem correct, but=
 I'd like to research them before raising them here.

Saluta!
Kim


--- In =
glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Gary" <gmillernd@...> wrote:
>
> Kim--
> 
> A g=
ood start is
> 
> http://glosa.org/en/gramm.htm
> 
> and look under "Syntax=
."
> 
> Saluta,
> 
> _ _
> /.
> /\   Gary
> #
> 
> --- In glosalist@yahoogr=
oups.com, "Kim" <kimesperanto@> wrote:
> >
> > Karo Glosa-pe,
> > 
> > I ha=
ve been reading the Glosa Internet Dictionary much lately, and have a progr=
am that can parse 'glen.txt'.  A huge thank you to Marcel and the other con=
tributors for their work!  When my program (written in Python) is sufficien=
tly developed, I can make it available, if desired.  My initial goal is to =
produce an HTML version that has bold main entries.  I plan to rerun it as =
new releases appear from Marcel.
> > 
> > The next question I have for you =
all concerns the grammar rules of Glosa.  I know that Wendy Ashby and Ron C=
lark rarely stated them.  Learning from examples, as presented in "18 Steps=
", is an excellent way to learn.  But afterwards when I have a question abo=
ut usage, it is painful to scan through lots of text to discover if usage X=
 is ever done.  So I would like to try to deduce what rules of the grammar =
there seem to be, as well as what are simply guidelines, and present them t=
o you all for review and correction.  Loosely, a 'rule' is *always* followe=
d, and a 'guideline' is *usually* followed, and may have to do with good st=
yle (however that is defined) more so than correctness.  (I hope not to get=
 into prescriptionist vs descriptionist discussions. :)
> > 
> > For exampl=
e, a rule would be:   "u" always precedes the noun it modifies, possibly wi=
th intervening modifiers.
> > 
> > 
> > So, to begin:  is this a rule?
> > =

> >    1. When 'u' is used with a noun that also has one or more adjective=
s, "u" always precedes the adjectives.  This applies equally to "un" and "p=
lu".
> > 
> >          Correct:    un hedo prince       u mega kali religio=
-do
> >          Incorrect:  hedo un prince       mega u kali religio-do
> =
> 
> > I scanned "18 Steps" and did not find any counterexamples, but I cou=
ld have missed one, and even absence there is not a proof.  Please send you=
r thoughts, corrections, discussion.  For now I am trying to stay strictly =
with the documents produced by W.A. and R.C from 1985 onwards, i.e., the of=
ficial defining docs of the language.  I know outside of that there seems t=
o be a lot of variation... 
> > 
> > Saluta e Gratia!
> > Kim
> >
>



