---
authorName: Kim
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kim&quot; &lt;kimesperanto@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGtsbjVkcyt2M2ozQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2461
msgSnippet: Ave Glosa-pe! I am trying to work out exactly what qod means, comparing
  and contrasting it to qi .  It is not used in the 18 Steps document.  In the
nextInTime: 2462
nextInTopic: 2462
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1367283964'
prevInTime: 2460
prevInTopic: 0
profile: kimglosa
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 4WMN8hn40_j-Pf5kLPv91ThiJyr2J9zG4cQFKpULrwW74locLVC0RFxUMu92BaVO1su1eyQAej8pOJb-Ianea94IVkaaLMw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: the use of &#39;qod&#39;
topicId: 2461
userId: 547631289
---

Ave Glosa-pe!

I am trying to work out exactly what 'qod' means, comparing =
and contrasting it to 'qi'.  It is not used in the "18 Steps" document.  In=
 the online dictionary, it means "what (that which)".  I found 2 uses among=
 Ashby/Clark documents:

1. Plus, id sio evita excesi specializa per face m=
o verba akti *qod* in Plu Palaeo Lingua gene face per tri alo ma. 
It would=
 also steer clear of over-specialization by making one word do *what* in na=
tural languages is often [done] by three or more. 

(from Paraleli Textu, W=
endy Ashby & Ronald Clark, =A9 GEO, 1993)

Here it is the object of the fir=
st phrase 'mo verba akti', and the subject of coming verb 'gene face'.  It =
is sort of a relative pronoun, like 'qi', but larger than that.

2. "Mi ne =
es tu, e ne ski; *qod* tu ski," reakti Huitze, ... "
"That I, not being you=
, do not know *what* you know," replied Huitze..."

(from Piski Hedo, Wendy=
 Ashby & Ron Clark, =A9 GEO, 1994)

Here it is the direct object of 'mi ...=
 ne ski', and the direct object of the coming 'tu ski'.

So to me it seems =
equivalent to 'u-la; qi' - that which.  Thus we could have the equivalent r=
ewritings:

1a. Plus, id sio evita excesi specializa per face mo verba akti=
 *u-la; qi* in Plu Palaeo Lingua gene face per tri alo ma. 

2a. "Mi ne es =
tu, e ne ski *u-la; qi* tu ski," reakti Huitze, ..."

Is that how you all u=
nderstand qod's meaning?  Other thoughts?

(Note - I realize 2a violates th=
e rule in 18 Steps stating that 'qi' should be omitted in this case.  pleas=
e overlook so we can focus on the main point.)

Gratia!!
Kim



