---
authorName: Gary
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Gary&quot; &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGtsbjVkcyt2M2ozQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGtscHI5Zyt0N2JnQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2462
msgSnippet: Kim-- I think you hit it on the head.  I had actually never seen an official
  explanation of how to use QOD, but there was a time when the Glosa authors
nextInTime: 2463
nextInTopic: 2463
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1367371888'
prevInTime: 2461
prevInTopic: 2461
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 1Ka4NJ3Nnvo1qfUOFXmM2DHI0gVa1F20_QAXR34eMjc3lZ5eBVTUnJz1BeyF66H3T6NBctHcuxqlYM1SxPKqfCEjuQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: the use of &#39;qod&#39;'
topicId: 2461
userId: 486875979
---

Kim--

I think you hit it on the head.  I had actually never seen an offici=
al explanation of how to use QOD, but there was a time when the Glosa autho=
rs experimented with using vocabulary from Interlingua.  The Interlingua of=
 Peano (Latino sine Flexione) used QUOD in this manner.

I prefer the minim=
alist approach to International Auxiliary Languages and have avoided using =
QOD, since it is not considered "Central Glosa" (marked with "++" in the Gl=
osa Internet Dictionary).  U-LA; QI would be a substitute for QOD, although=
 I usually say U RA; QI.

Saluta,
_ _
/.
/\   Gary
#

--- In glosalist@yaho=
ogroups.com, "Kim" <kimesperanto@...> wrote:
>
> Ave Glosa-pe!
> 
> I am tr=
ying to work out exactly what 'qod' means, comparing and contrasting it to =
'qi'.  It is not used in the "18 Steps" document.  In the online dictionary=
, it means "what (that which)".  I found 2 uses among Ashby/Clark documents=
:
> 
> 1. Plus, id sio evita excesi specializa per face mo verba akti *qod*=
 in Plu Palaeo Lingua gene face per tri alo ma. 
> It would also steer clea=
r of over-specialization by making one word do *what* in natural languages =
is often [done] by three or more. 
> 
> (from Paraleli Textu, Wendy Ashby &=
 Ronald Clark, =A9 GEO, 1993)
> 
> Here it is the object of the first phras=
e 'mo verba akti', and the subject of coming verb 'gene face'.  It is sort =
of a relative pronoun, like 'qi', but larger than that.
> 
> 2. "Mi ne es t=
u, e ne ski; *qod* tu ski," reakti Huitze, ... "
> "That I, not being you, =
do not know *what* you know," replied Huitze..."
> 
> (from Piski Hedo, Wen=
dy Ashby & Ron Clark, =A9 GEO, 1994)
> 
> Here it is the direct object of '=
mi ... ne ski', and the direct object of the coming 'tu ski'.
> 
> So to me=
 it seems equivalent to 'u-la; qi' - that which.  Thus we could have the eq=
uivalent rewritings:
> 
> 1a. Plus, id sio evita excesi specializa per face=
 mo verba akti *u-la; qi* in Plu Palaeo Lingua gene face per tri alo ma. 
>=
 
> 2a. "Mi ne es tu, e ne ski *u-la; qi* tu ski," reakti Huitze, ..."
> 
>=
 Is that how you all understand qod's meaning?  Other thoughts?
> 
> (Note =
- I realize 2a violates the rule in 18 Steps stating that 'qi' should be om=
itted in this case.  please overlook so we can focus on the main point.)
> =

> Gratia!!
> Kim
>


