---
authorName: Xavier Abadia
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Xavier Abadia&quot; &lt;xabadiar@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGtuNnZwbiszY2tnQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGtuZnJtcCtlN3JtQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2471
msgSnippet: Dear Gary, I see that you re right about those problems of the book CENTRAL
  GLOSA. 5000 English into Glosa 1000 with Etymological Notes (1993). It s a pitty.
nextInTime: 2472
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1369141785'
prevInTime: 2470
prevInTopic: 2469
profile: xabadiar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: cq5D6Mj9VHLg6oKxhVloj38aMhs29-9HwlfalYtIYWf8JssmiHT4cff2CtnqNjYJRxokMdg1DV9VNA63qDHbb6-52FMGs70VN8aS
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Central Glosa'
topicId: 2461
userId: 472762895
---

Dear Gary,

I see that you're right about those problems of the book "CENTR=
AL GLOSA. 5000 English into Glosa 1000 with Etymological Notes" (1993). It'=
s a pitty.

By the other hand, according to the GID the word "qod" continue=
s to be okay !
what (that which) =3D qod

Xavi.

--- In glosalist@yahoogrou=
ps.com, "Gary" <gmillernd@...> wrote:
>
> Karo Xavi--
> 
> I really liked t=
he vocabulary in the BACK of the book CENTRAL GLOSA, "5000 English into Glo=
sa 1000," when it first came out.  But some problems were always apparent t=
o me:
> 
> 1) It contains much more than 1000 Glosa words.
> 
> 2) This voc=
abulary and the vocabulary of "Glosa 1000" at the FRONT of the book are not=
 well coordinated.  For example, front/DOMINA and back/CEFA have the same m=
eaning.
> 
> Some of these problems have been corrected in the Glosa Intern=
et Dictionary (GID).  For example, CEFA is now the preferred word.
> 
> Wor=
ds marked with both ++ and + in the GID should approximate the vocabulary o=
f "5000 English into Glosa 1000."
> 
> Saluta,
> _ _
> /.
> /\   Gary
> #
>=
 
> --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Xavier Abadia" <xabadiar@> wrote:
> =
>
> > Hello!
> > 
> > The word QOD is okay according to the dictionary I'm =
using ("CENTRAL GLOSA. 5000 English into Glosa 1000 with Etymological Notes=
", 1993) :
> > 
> > WHAT, THAT WHICH =3D QOD
> > ... WHICH ... =3D QI
> > 
=
> > Xavi.
> > 
> > 
> > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Kim" <kimesperan=
to@> wrote:
> > >
> > > Ave Glosa-pe!
> > > 
> > > I am trying to work out =
exactly what 'qod' means, comparing and contrasting it to 'qi'.  It is not =
used in the "18 Steps" document.  In the online dictionary, it means "what =
(that which)".  I found 2 uses among Ashby/Clark documents:
> > > 
> > > 1.=
 Plus, id sio evita excesi specializa per face mo verba akti *qod* in Plu P=
alaeo Lingua gene face per tri alo ma. 
> > > It would also steer clear of =
over-specialization by making one word do *what* in natural languages is of=
ten [done] by three or more. 
> > > 
> > > (from Paraleli Textu, Wendy Ashb=
y & Ronald Clark, =A9 GEO, 1993)
> > > 
> > > Here it is the object of the =
first phrase 'mo verba akti', and the subject of coming verb 'gene face'.  =
It is sort of a relative pronoun, like 'qi', but larger than that.
> > > 
>=
 > > 2. "Mi ne es tu, e ne ski; *qod* tu ski," reakti Huitze, ... "
> > > "=
That I, not being you, do not know *what* you know," replied Huitze..."
> >=
 > 
> > > (from Piski Hedo, Wendy Ashby & Ron Clark, =A9 GEO, 1994)
> > > 
=
> > > Here it is the direct object of 'mi ... ne ski', and the direct objec=
t of the coming 'tu ski'.
> > > 
> > > So to me it seems equivalent to 'u-l=
a; qi' - that which.  Thus we could have the equivalent rewritings:
> > > 
=
> > > 1a. Plus, id sio evita excesi specializa per face mo verba akti *u-la=
; qi* in Plu Palaeo Lingua gene face per tri alo ma. 
> > > 
> > > 2a. "Mi =
ne es tu, e ne ski *u-la; qi* tu ski," reakti Huitze, ..."
> > > 
> > > Is =
that how you all understand qod's meaning?  Other thoughts?
> > > 
> > > (N=
ote - I realize 2a violates the rule in 18 Steps stating that 'qi' should b=
e omitted in this case.  please overlook so we can focus on the main point.=
)
> > > 
> > > Gratia!!
> > > Kim
> > >
> >
>



