---
authorName: Marcel Springer
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Marcel Springer &lt;marcel@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMTcxMDE2MTg0ODA0LjVEQjkwNEUwMDFGQG10YS0xLm9wZW5tYWlsYm94Lm9nPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMTcxMDE3MjE1NjEyLjU3NjkxMTEyLm1hcmNlbEBtc3ByaW5nZXIuZGU+
headers.referencesHeader: PDIwMTcxMDE2MTg0ODA0LjVEQjkwNEUwMDFGQG10YS0xLm9wZW5tYWlsYm94Lm9nPg==
layout: email
msgId: 2536
msgSnippet: '(English seqe ###.) Karo 3zja, David Porter e Christopher Marshall e
  panto Glosa-ami, gratia a panto vi, vi uti u-ci Yahoo-grega e grafo ci. ... Ja,
  tu habe'
nextInTime: 2537
nextInTopic: 2538
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1508270172'
prevInTime: 2535
prevInTopic: 2535
profile: marcel_ingo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: a1Nol4lRrByf9JLPhY-dDocRfRSSjMZPJDR_KBj64rXIxPscf31m8L_SWNZeNBWoRztp9EMGofZ2aC8I7J7fYdDBaw93qWo02dv-1g
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Tense and number and other things'
topicId: 2532
userId: 142192462
---

(English seqe ###.) 


Karo 3zja, David Porter e Christopher Marshall e panto Glosa-ami, 

gratia a panto vi, vi uti u-ci Yahoo-grega e grafo ci. 


3zja pa grafo:
 > 1) How mandatory is marking tense and number in Glosa?
 > 2) Would Glosa work, in theory, without marking tense/number?
 > As I've understood it, marking number is semi-mandatory: u/un/plu
 > is not needed if the sentence is still clear without it. I suppose 
 > one catch is that.. u/un/plu is used to make the phrase clearer, to 
 > show what is a noun and what is a verb.. am I right in presuming
 > that it fills such a role?

Ja, tu habe korekti.


 > Would sentences like:
 > * mi pa lekto bibli, e logi [that]..
 > * pa-di, mi lekto bibli, e logi [that]..
 > be normal Glosa?

Ja.


 > I suppose then that.. the phrase-start "mi grafo ..." could already
 > mean both "I write" and "my writing", right? (Thinking about the
 > limits in regards to comprehensibility and how much difference the
 > u/un/plu makes..).

Itera ja. ... Glosa es fo libe lingua.
E plus tu habe veri: uno-kron id pote limita u logi, si u dice-pe es
tro minus-kura. 


 > (Btw, how active is the Facebook group?)

Mi ne ski. Mi ne fo amo Facebook, so mi ne pa atende u-ci grega.
Sed mi puta; panto aktivi pro Glosa e plu hetero auxi-lingua debi
gene lauda.


Saluta a panto vi

Marsel Salt'-an 


###

Dear 3zja, David Porter, Christopher Marshall and all Glosa-friends, 
  Thank you all for using this Yahoo-group and for writing here.
  ... Every guess of 3zja was correct. Glosa is a very free language.
And it is also correct, that then sometimes it is harder to understand
if the speaker is too sloppy.
  About the Facebook group I do not know much. I never took part
there, because I don't like Facebook very much. But I think, every
activity for Glosa or the other auxlangs should be praised.
  Greetings to all
Marcel Springer 


