---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGgybjh2dmdiNmp0bTAxODA0Nm84OTM2NGo3dm4xaHJyb2JANGF4LmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDEwNDIxNTEyNS4wMjdmMWVjMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 253
msgSnippet: Hi Bill, Well, I have a copy of the original war-time print too. I guess
  I could try to make a fair copy also. But the only prob. is I ve retured, and moved
  up
nextInTime: 254
nextInTopic: 254
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1073214319'
prevInTime: 252
prevInTopic: 251
profile: bliminus_107_ssaass
replyTo: LIST
senderId: i6ylE_Ljh8awMJNRbvpkSJ2DH1TBA5J7f7jZGB3gsLgENoS71pHSUgY6JUq5qdaES7s1PFxhBbYNhUuarvUMWJzbD_moM54dhmb64M60ipUJl7UAIg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Hogben&#39;s &quot;Interglossa&quot;'
topicId: 251
userId: 147970330
---

Hi Bill,
    Well, I have a copy of the original war-time print too.
    I guess I could try to make a fair copy also.

    But the only prob. is I've retured, and moved up the mountains behind 
Sydney, and my books are mostly still in boxes.  It would probably take me 
longer to find the right box, and then the right settings on the scanner, 
thaan to be successful with a Google search.

     I am looking into eBook publishing as part of my retirement 
activities.  Any suggestions about potential titles and formats?
     Basically eBooks are all in the self-help category, but Glosa might be 
able to find its way in there.  I did read that we can incclude some sound 
with PDF format.  Do you know how to do this?  I have Jaws2, not the proper 
Adobe PDF maker.  Eventually, If I do get serious about eBooks, I could 
have to shell out the hundreds to get the proper Adobe product.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell
    P.S. Here is an attachment in DOC format of a rather nice scene from 
the newly released MMORPG (Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game), 
Horizons.
At 12:55 PM 1/1/04 -0500, you wrote:

>Santa left a scanner this year, and I can think
>of only one reason for him to do that... It must
>be time to scan Hogben's "Interglossa" that John
>Schilke sent me a year or so ago! Only twenty or
>so pages so far (1-19,42,43):
>
>http://www.kafejo.com/interglossa
>
>Does anybody have a good scan of the Hogben photo
>on the bio page? I could monkey around with my
>scanner settings a bit and see if I can improve my
>scan, but I know I've seen that pic before on the
>Web. I just can't find it today...


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


