---
authorName: Marcos Cruz
canDelete: true
contentTrasformed: false
from: Marcos Cruz &lt;yahoogroups@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMTgxMjA4MjAzOTAyLkdBNzAwMEByYXNwZXNpcz4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2548
msgSnippet: Ave. Qe uno-pe ci nu du interese alo aktivi pro Glosa? Id feno; mi pa
  proto disci u lingua kron bi-ze anua tro tardi... Well, beside the usual _18 Steps_
  and
nextInTime: 2549
nextInTopic: 2549
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1544301542'
prevInTime: 2547
prevInTopic: 0
profile: alinome_net
replyTo: LIST
senderId: htmY9qDk0a5A6pRA0-fkHAZpA6LP2g0fYi3IVjYpTktffWB7r8tnvlGVu3ua9QY5aW4RLPzOCT-8g_Z2HBa-Ub2Ujrfa4257VmjIhg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Glosa e-books project
topicId: 2548
userId: 297134217
---


Ave.

Qe uno-pe ci nu du interese alo aktivi pro Glosa?

Id feno; mi pa proto disci u lingua kron bi-ze anua tro tardi...

Well, beside the usual _18 Steps_ and _Basic Reference_, I've read also most of
the recent issues of _Plu Glosa Nota_ available for downloading, parts of the
older ones (even before the change to phonetic spelling!); and the short
documents about the language, from the Glosalist files.  I'm reading also the
interesting parts of the old Glosalist archives.

Mi nu hedo; Marcel Springer pa du tena, in glosa.org, poli dokumenta; qi
interese e funktio pro ski u lingua e id histori. Mi nu gratia an e plus plu
homi; qi pa grafo e translati plu textu tem poli anua, klu plu Glosa autori.

I'be been preparing e-books from the following contents:

- 18_steps_to_fluency_in_euro-glosa/
- glosa_basic_reference/
- glosa_internet_dictionary/
- glosalist_1997-2003/
- justi/
- plu_glosa_nota/
- plu_infanti_stori/
- pusi_glosa_kristo-bibli/
- un_hedo_prince/

I started working with the documents in order to make the texts easier to use.
But I think the EPUB, PDF and other target formats may be useful for others
too.  It's kind of public Glosa preservation project.  

Mi nu tende de publiki plu-la projekti a GitHub, sed proto mi nu volu de
petitio plu doxo.

As of the language itself, I think Glosa has many nice features, but,
unfortunately, also several obvious problems -- by design. But more on that any
other day.

Vale.

-- 
[Mi nu disci Glosa. Place korekti mi plu lingua ero. Gratia.]

Marcos Cruz
http://alinome.net

