---
authorName: "T\xF3th L\xE1szl\xF3"
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: =?iso-8859-2?q?T=F3th=20L=E1szl=F3=20?= &lt;leslie_toth@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAyLjA0MDExODE2Mjk0NDExNjc4MTM2NzVAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 267
msgSnippet: Dear Mr. Robin, ... Eng./ You are right, I missed the spelling, because
  it is written by two l , so it is belletristic , belles-lettres and it means
nextInTime: 268
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1074439784'
prevInTime: 266
prevInTopic: 266
profile: leslie_toth
replyTo: LIST
senderId: AD2vEjnMl1baKDxpjV2AoZw5pdu-QUphKtaWZDZHDEg2tevG5qoJ9dR7EZSEmDKvN9jvziUJQZWkerliEFQzQdGXg25-SRiCpPAyfhBeVzfheL3xuohcP4Vy3hbAoXIMkXMt8IRp-UsT
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Pontlingvo - Mediating language'
topicId: 257
userId: 21276468
---


Dear Mr. Robin,


> Glosa/ Mi ne pote face analisi pro, "beletristic": bel=
e  =3D beli; tristic =3D 
> tristi.
> Eng./ I cannot analyse "beletristic":=
 bele =3D beautiful, pretty; tristic =3D 
> sad, sadly, sadness.

Eng./ You=
 are right, I missed the spelling, because it is written by two "l", so it =
is "belletristic", "belles-lettres" and it means imaginative literature, li=
terary (at least by my english dictionaries). Maybe in USA or in Australia =
it is not used.
 
>  Glosa/ Tem Glosa habe eleganti ko id separa verbi - ko=
 un uti de plu 
> hifena - na habe solo oligo de plu-ci uti intra u frasa-g=
rega.  Si plu-pe 
> uti plu hifena intra plu komplexi verbi de Esperanto, n=
a sio skope u-la 
> lingua ple de plu hifena.  U holo designa-skema de plu-=
ci lingua habe
> difere.
> 
> Eng./   While Glosa has clean lines with its =
separate words - through the 
> use of hyphens -
> we have only a few of th=
ese usages in a paragraph.  If people use hyphens 
> within the complex wor=
ds of Esperanto, we would see that language full of 
> hyphens.  The whole =
design plan of these languages is different.

Of course, in this way we won=
't obtine an usual language, but a designed language can't be by all means =
an usual language.
 
> Glosa/ Asura, Glosa ne pa habe plu tali ge-fixa buta=
, ka id pa gene 
> ge-designa te evita mu. U ge-asocia problema eqa u nece =
de ge-regulari 
> verbi-ordina.  Esperanto habe u libera ordina, so nece ha=
be u signali te 
> indika un objekti de u frasa.  Plu-ci bi lingua ne habe =
oligo difere: mu 
> habe plu toto oposi skema pro mu plu frasa.
> 
> Eng./ =
Sure, Glosa does not have such attached endings, because it was 
> designed=
 to avoid them.  The associated problem is the need for regulated 
> word o=
rder.  Esperanto has free order, thus needs to have a signpost to 
> indica=
te the object of the sentence.  These two languages do not have a few 
> di=
fferences; they have totally opposite planning for their sentences.

There =
are some languages, which use word order concerning to adjectives and nouns=
, but in all other cases there are no word order.
 
> Glosa/ U tali uti pot=
e seqe un adopti de Glosa, sed a-nu, u separa verbi te 
> indika plurali, d=
ona ad u lingua u simi este.
> 
> Eng./ Such usage could follow the adoptio=
n of Glosa, but, for now, a 
> separate word to indicate the plural, gives =
a similarity of feel to the 
> language.

Eng./ The existing of two ways to=
 express the plural is not absolutely a bad thing. I know language in which=
 it has a frequent usage.
 
> Glosa/ Ja, plu-pe, kliesto mi, habe dificili =
ko Esperanto ka id complexi 
> struktura de plu flexi; e, id sio es veri, p=
er un uti de plu hifena inter 
> plu flexi, u-la lingua sio dona facili a p=
lu lekto-pe.  Anti-co, un uti de 
> plu flexi habe fundamenta pro u-la ling=
ua.  Place nota, u muta per uti plu 
> hifena ko ge-grafo Esperanto, dona n=
uli bene-ra ko tenta logi ge-dice 
> Esperanto.
> 
> Eng./ Yes, people, inc=
luding me, have difficulty with Esperanto, because of 
> its complex struct=
ure of inflections; and it would be true, by using 
> hyphens between the i=
nflections, that language would be easier for 
> readers.  However, the use=
 of inflections is fundamental to that 
> language.  Please note, the chang=
e of using hyphens with written Esperanto, 
> gives no benefit with trying =
to understand spoken Esperanto.

Eng./ What you have written is an another =
thing. The understanding of a spoken text is a difficult thing, independent=
 of the concerning language. When you are listening to a speach, you can't =
distinguish the appropiate words as independent words, in spite of they are=
 really separated. As this point of view, it is entirelly all the same if i=
t is about a language which uses joined words, or it's about one which does=
n't use its.
 
> Glosa/ Tu habe konflikti: tu ne volu auxi Glosa, sed tu sk=
i id habe u ma 
> boni designa de Esperanto.  To u-ci momenta, il es no rea=
li problema: 
> Esperanto habe u forti organiza-ra, e Glosa habe nuli apare=
 spe de oposi 
> Esperanto tena de munda duce-ra.
> 
> Eng./ You have a con=
flict: you do not wish to help Glosa, but you know it 
> has a better desig=
n than Esperanto.  At this moment there is no real 
> problem: Esperanto ha=
s a strong organisation, and Glosa has no apparent 
> hope of opposing Espe=
ranto's hold of world leadership.

Eng./ I think, you didn't understand me.=
 You can be sure that I would abandon immediatelly Esperanto, if a have had=
 an alternative possibility of coresponding in a high standard of knowledge=
 of the language, with an enough big amount of coresponding pals using an e=
asier, much rather European language as it is Esperanto. It's because I hav=
e had enough of the tiring use of endings, and permanent care of not making=
 spelling errors. But the best thing that I hate in Eo is the difficulty wh=
en you are trying to read the phrases in a fast manner.
Spite of my bad eng=
lish, I can read the English phrases faster then Eo phrases, although I mas=
ter much better  Esperanto as English.

I used to corespond with many peopl=
e all over the word, so I need to have many partners. Even "Ido" doesn't pr=
ovide for me enough koresponding partners because of the small number of it=
's users.
Could you granted to me in Glosa that big number of possible pen =
colleagues as in Esperanto? I could guess that you can't do it. 

>    ~~~~=
~~~~~
> Glosa/ Esperanto ne pote face plura minor muta te gene oligo de plu=
 qalita 
> de Glosa, ka plu lingua habe u tali difere de designa, ke mu ne =
pote adopti 
> plu itema ex alelo.  Sine un akti de Teo, u munda .. si id g=
ene ali 
> ge-skema lingua .. fu gene Esperanto in id no-muta forma.  Il se=
mbla ke u 
> munda habe pusi energi, to u nu-tem, pro kogita de recerka in =
u reforma de 
> munda ge-dice lingua.
> Si plu-ci bi lingua ne pote gene be=
neficia ex alelo, mi pote solo habe spe 
> ke plu-pe de u Glosa grega fu de=
velopo un organiza-ra te ofere u veri 
> alterna-ra de Esperanto.
> 
> Eng.=
/ Esperanto cannot make several minor changes to gain a few of the 
> quali=
ties of Glosa, because the languages have such difference of design 
> that=
 they cannot adopt each other's features.  Without an act of God, the 
> wo=
rld - if it gets any planned language - will get Esperanto in its 
> un-cha=
nged form.  It seems that the world has little energy, at the 
> present, f=
or thinking of research into the reform of world spoken 
> language.

Eng./=
 You are right, in this way it isn't possible to make the whole changes tha=
t needs Eo, bat perhaps it isn't really secessary to be made all of them. I=
t needs to be changed only the most important things that causes difficulti=
es while the people are learning the language, and those which made you to =
do frequent spelling errors.

I only want to select the less bad way of the=
 two existing possibilities.

>  If these two languages cannot benefit from=
 each other, I can 
> only hope that those of the Glosa group will develop =
an organisation to 
> offer a true alternative to Esperanto.

Eng./ Why the=
 Glosa group which belongs to one of the most spreaded language community (=
English language enviroment), doesn't have enough support to elaborate the =
necessary infrastructure of the planned language Glosa during the last deca=
des? 
 
Regards,
Laslo
