---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDFhNy4xZjU0ODViMS4yZDUzZjY4MUBhb2wuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDIwODIwMjk0OS4wMjRjNjRlMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 306
msgSnippet: '... Hi Sid, I am replying quickly in English. I had a look at nu lupu
  doso, and I do not think I( would be able to get interested in the language. It
  does seem'
nextInTime: 307
nextInTopic: 311
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1076238091'
prevInTime: 305
prevInTopic: 292
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: jr-8kr_Ct8wY12ZDJ3kZSjJ9lbZYyqN62TiAoqsMt6GiwXEbEeFCgZCfe12XNucR7TqI9lZ6ovPcWyGqFQuA52T1Ol_4KkRn2TkUtMSnNe56VrnuDw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] na lupu doso'
topicId: 292
userId: 147970330
---

At 02:41 PM 2/5/04 -0500, you wrote:
>karo plu glosa-pe
>  ..........
>I have been investigating my difficulties with languages including a few with
>glosa. I find that I can read G fairly easily but am not quite sure how to
>write it well. My investigations have produced a rebel nephew of G which 
>may be
>of interest to some Glist readers and collectors of made languages - might
>even have one or two useful ideas.
>
>the result so far "na lupu doso" is on a web page:-
>http://hometown.aol.co.uk/sydpidd/myhomepage/hobby.html
>sid
Hi Sid,
   I am replying quickly in English.
   I had a look at nu lupu doso, and I do not think I( would be able to get 
interested in the language.
   It does seem that as well as a difficulty with memory, which I have to 
some extent, you also have a range of interesting psychological needs of 
language.

   When I was browsing widely into Planned Languages, I looked at a range, 
and could see that the major difference in linguistic requirements was 
between comfortable recognition of a language with a human-like feel, and 
on the other side more of a regularised predictability about the form and 
make-up of words.

   After thinking about it, I came down on the side of human-like language.
   I decided that the rules and short made-up words took more memory than 
those taken from a source vocabulary.
   The thing about Glosa is probably thaat it is very close to the normal 
way humans think, but it has had the unnecessary sophistications removed, 
so it looks very regularised.
    It is simplified almost to absurdity, and relies for its grammar almost 
completely on word order, not word form.  While Glosa looks standardised 
and regularised, I prefer to think of it as being streamlined and slimmed down.

   So, if you have a reasonable personal vocabulary of the Indo-european 
/Classical root words, then glosa is sorted out vocab-wise, and if you have 
a reasonable feel for the structure of language, you have the syntax sorted 
out.  This explains why I feel sad about Glosa: it definitely seems like 
the pick of the bunch to me.

   Considering that you have been with Glosa longer than I have, and still 
have not clicked in happily, this suggests that Glosa does not naturally 
suit you.  And thus, your mind tangentialises to finding different ways of 
writing Glosa, and even tugs you in the direction of exploring completely 
ways of designing planned languages.

    While we may never find a Planned Language that the world can agree on 
for adoption, the funny thing is thaat in each different country, whole 
groups of people with widely varying psychologies all learn to speak their 
national languages.

    So the old question arises: what makes a good Planned Language?
    But the question does not stop there: what makes the most suitable 
Planned Language for the whole world to use?  This is a little harder.

    But if we had any really good linguists, they would be able to 
scientifically analyse the language faculty, and come up with what I call a 
"line of best fit" between the possibilities for global adoption.  OR they 
might start again and come up with the language that was easiest for all to 
learn and use, and which also gave people the opportunity of expressing 
themselves very well.
    Such a language might not exist, but if it does, the language 
scientists ought to make it their job to find it.

    I personally believe that there really is a 'Language of Thought' and 
that the brain has a natural syntax of its own.   If we ever discover them, 
my guess is that they will be the basis of the Lingua Munda. And either 
because I am skewed towards creativity and simplicity, OR because I am 
reading the signs correctly, I feel that the finally successful Planned 
Language will have a specification much like that of Glosa.

    While other have tried to dissuade me, and have extolled the virtues of 
inflection, I still wonder why English, the least inflected of the national 
languages, has done so well.

    It is fairly obvious that I will die before an International Auxilliary 
Language is adopted, so I have stopped worrying about the Human Race: 
they'll have to carry on without me.

    My guess is that we'll find a cure for cancer before we learn to talk 
to one another all around the globe, and  that the astronaughts visiting 
Pluto will still have communication difficulties because of differences 
between their national languages.

     I have met a few bright spark, hot-shot computer geeks, and I really 
did think they would have intuitively pushed the envelope and created a new 
age, Internet language through sheer mental ability ... but it hasn't 
happened yet.  Oh well, that's another science fiction book to write one day!

     So, I marvel at your perseverence, Sid: Glosa with what seems to me to 
be an extremely elegant design, has taken twenty years and still has no 
significant community of Glosa speakers, and yet people are still prepared 
to launch out into the unknown of language planning ... to be approximately 
where Ron Clark was in 1975.

      I remain mystified by the fact that the language ability still 
mystifies us.  It does seem that intuitive introspection OR some form of 
very sophisticated statistical analysis of the language function will 
finally yield the secrets of the human mind and how it converts ideas into 
linear symbols of sound or sight.

     But, for the moment I'll keep with Glosa.  I'm sorry to have muffed my 
retirement: by now I should have hoarded my cash, and having stopped 
working, should have been able to indulge in my fantasies like developing 
Glosa, writing science fiction and playing jazz regularly, but no, I'm 
chasing the dollar even after I've stopped earning.  Still got my fingers 
crossed though: maybe I'll find the pot of gold, and then concentrate on 
Glosa, and whatever.

     One thing I know: I won't be tangentialising away from Glosa: at 67 I 
haven't a chance of seeing a a language I create even get to second 
base.  But then, I like Glosa, so would concentrate on perfecting it and 
growing its user-base and corpus of published works, rather than dividing 
my energies between Glosa and my own new language.

     Once I've discovered financial security for my retirement, I could get 
into serious linguistic research: there has to be an interesting 
articulation between syntax and semantics.  And again I'd plunk for 
simplicity.  I'd say I know the brain's grammar is syntactic, but there has 
to be some parallel operation of the interaction between concepts and ideas 
- of semantics - running close to, but slightly apart from, the rules of 
syntax.

     Is anyone else on the Glosalist thinking about language at this level?

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell  



