---
authorName: Manuel Valderrama
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Manuel Valderrama &lt;cp46tan@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDIwODIwMjk0OS4wMjRjNjRlMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQwMjk0MzY2LjgwODA5MDBAaG90cG9wLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDIwODIwMjk0OS4wMjRjNjRlMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
layout: email
msgId: 311
msgSnippet: Mi pa inkontra tu mesage fo interese, Robin! Penite ke mi ne pote reakti
  a panto ra; de qi tu pa dice, sed mi du grafo subo lento in Glosa (e mi kredi; id
  fu
nextInTime: 312
nextInTopic: 316
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1076446054'
prevInTime: 310
prevInTopic: 306
profile: cp46tan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: YCyETh3dc5ce1xJ7tjXUIQj21KFK-7m4iQfU-97ev3MotxopxNYNZIXNswu69v6iV0-W3zGlOGnvdAGAYS-MYhrMpVos3xdgjXbDkUk
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] na lupu doso'
topicId: 292
userId: 65375870
---

Mi pa inkontra tu mesage fo interese, Robin! Penite ke mi ne pote reakti 
a panto ra; de qi tu pa dice, sed mi du grafo subo lento in Glosa (e mi 
kredi; id fu es ma boni pro mi Glosa, de reakti in Glosa vice Angli).

Robin Gaskell pa grafo:

>
>   When I was browsing widely into Planned Languages, I looked at a range, 
>and could see that the major difference in linguistic requirements was 
>between comfortable recognition of a language with a human-like feel, and 
>on the other side more of a regularised predictability about the form and 
>make-up of words.
>
>   After thinking about it, I came down on the side of human-like language.
>   I decided that the rules and short made-up words took more memory than 
>those taken from a source vocabulary.
>   The thing about Glosa is probably thaat it is very close to the normal 
>way humans think, but it has had the unnecessary sophistications removed, 
>so it looks very regularised.
>    It is simplified almost to absurdity, and relies for its grammar almost 
>completely on word order, not word form.  While Glosa looks standardised 
>and regularised, I prefer to think of it as being streamlined and slimmed down.
>
>   So, if you have a reasonable personal vocabulary of the Indo-european 
>/Classical root words, then glosa is sorted out vocab-wise, and if you have 
>a reasonable feel for the structure of language, you have the syntax sorted 
>out.  This explains why I feel sad about Glosa: it definitely seems like 
>the pick of the bunch to me.
>
>   Considering that you have been with Glosa longer than I have, and still 
>have not clicked in happily, this suggests that Glosa does not naturally 
>suit you.  And thus, your mind tangentialises to finding different ways of 
>writing Glosa, and even tugs you in the direction of exploring completely 
>ways of designing planned languages.
>  
>
Il es mo gravi problema ko Glosa: te gene sko de lingua, pe nece poli 
stude-materi. Sed il ne es sati stude-materi alo lekto-materi pro Glosa! 
U gene sko de lingua ne pertine ad u tipo de aktivi; qi nece forti e 
profundi praxi, sed nece lati e freque praxi. Si pe pote lekto mo pusi 
Glosa textu singu di, pe fu proto sensi u natura de u lingua, qo es 
korekti e qo ne,e u boni Glosa habe qo-feno.

>    While we may never find a Planned Language that the world can agree on 
>for adoption, the funny thing is thaat in each different country, whole 
>groups of people with widely varying psychologies all learn to speak their 
>national languages.
>
>    So the old question arises: what makes a good Planned Language?
>    But the question does not stop there: what makes the most suitable 
>Planned Language for the whole world to use?  This is a little harder.
>
>    But if we had any really good linguists, they would be able to 
>scientifically analyse the language faculty, and come up with what I call a 
>"line of best fit" between the possibilities for global adoption.  OR they 
>might start again and come up with the language that was easiest for all to 
>learn and use, and which also gave people the opportunity of expressing 
>themselves very well.
>    Such a language might not exist, but if it does, the language 
>scientists ought to make it their job to find it.
>
>    I personally believe that there really is a 'Language of Thought' and 
>that the brain has a natural syntax of its own.   If we ever discover them, 
>my guess is that they will be the basis of the Lingua Munda. And either 
>because I am skewed towards creativity and simplicity, OR because I am 
>reading the signs correctly, I feel that the finally successful Planned 
>Language will have a specification much like that of Glosa.
>
>    While other have tried to dissuade me, and have extolled the virtues of 
>inflection, I still wonder why English, the least inflected of the national 
>languages, has done so well.
>  
>
Mi ne kredi ke u-ci difusi gene origi de u facili de Angli lingua. In u 
pa (e in u nu, plus), poli natio uti auto lingua iso mediu te face 
ma-forti auto politika e ekonomi gravi. U kultura vikto es u maxi mega 
vikto, e te gene id, u lingua es u maxi boni arma.  Qe uno-pe pote 
kredi; u difusi de latina lingua pa acide ka u latina lingua es fo 
facili? Sura, id es ma facili de ali lingua; qi gene dice in u-la paleo 
tem, e plus mei facili de hetero. Sed, klu si u latina lingua pa sio es 
ma facili de panto peri lingua, pe ne sio sto dice auto lingua pro u 
latina. Id pa acide ke plu romani, kron mu vikto uno landa, mu proto u 
romani-face de u-ci landa: mu krati, inter poli ra; pe debi dice latina 
lingua. Mei paleo, ali exempla es u pa difusi de u Gali lingua; qi ne pa 
acide tanto tem retro. Kron u Esperanto pa apare, poli Gali-pe pa dice; 
qo-ka pe volu dice Esperanto, kron jam il pa es mo internatio lingua: u 
Gali lingua (in u-la tem, u Gali lingua pa es, homo exempla, u lingua de 
skience, de filosofi e de politika). E nu, u homo ra eveni ko un Angli 
lingua.

Si nu-tem mi volu gene u boni ergo (boni fortuna, ne panto ergo, sed 
sura poli), mi debi dice Angli lingua. Si mi volu face skience, plus mi 
debi dice Angli lingua. Si mi ne sio logi Angli lingua, posi ke mi ne pa 
pote gene sko de Glosa! Plus-co, mi ne sio logi u mega mero de info; qi 
es in inter-reti. Plus mi ne sio pote ko-labora in poli inter-reti 
ge-duce projekti iso Linux, KDE, Gnome, plu *BSD, e poli ali. Plu maxi 
boni dokumenta de poli ra es solo in Angli lingua! U gene-sko de Angli 
es u nece in nu-tem, e u-ci es u cefa basi de id difusi.

Sura, un angli lingua es facili, sed ne ta facili homo poli 
angli-dice-pe doxo. Id habe poli idio; qi face id subo rari e ne-facili. 
U verbi-fa, homo exempla, es poli mega, u maxi mega de panto lingua; qi 
gene dice nu epi geo. Pro pene singu verba, id pote gene detekti ali 
verba; qi habe u proxi semani de u mo, sed u difere inter plu bi es ke 
mo habe u germani radi e ali habe u latina radi (uno mali exempla: 
awareness/conciousness, feel/sense, feeling/atmosphere, 
about/concerning, begin/commence, ...). Plu kompositi akti-verba 
(phrasal verb) es fo-dificili de gene sko, e mi, homo romance-lingua-pe, 
more uti plu no-kompositi akti-verba vice plu kompositi, mode-co mi 
angli feno subo rari alo no-tekno a plu angli-pe. Plus, il es u mixa 
inter verba-muta e verba-ne-muta; qi kausa ke u angli ne feno fo gru.

>    It is fairly obvious that I will die before an International Auxilliary 
>Language is adopted, so I have stopped worrying about the Human Race: 
>they'll have to carry on without me.
>
>    My guess is that we'll find a cure for cancer before we learn to talk 
>to one another all around the globe, and  that the astronaughts visiting 
>Pluto will still have communication difficulties because of differences 
>between their national languages.
>
>     I have met a few bright spark, hot-shot computer geeks, and I really 
>did think they would have intuitively pushed the envelope and created a new 
>age, Internet language through sheer mental ability ... but it hasn't 
>happened yet.  Oh well, that's another science fiction book to write one day!
>  
>
U inter-reti nu pa aporta a na plu mira ra homo Linux, homo libera 
flexi-ma, homo ke na pote dice ko hetero pe in Glosa per reti-Grama, e 
homo ma importa pro Angli lingua. Qo-ra u fu-tem fero a nu, mi ne ski. 
Posi id acide ke u gravi de Angli fu kresce ma, alo posi ke id fu 
no-kresce, ka il es ma mega numera persona;qi ne dice Angli, in u reti, 
alo posi ke u cina-lingua, alo ali, es u fu-reti-lingua, alo posi ke uno 
auxi-lingua vikto a fini. Qo-pe ski!

>     So, I marvel at your perseverence, Sid: Glosa with what seems to me to 
>be an extremely elegant design, has taken twenty years and still has no 
>significant community of Glosa speakers, and yet people are still prepared 
>to launch out into the unknown of language planning ... to be approximately 
>where Ron Clark was in 1975.
>  
>
U numera de auxi lingua es sati mega nu-di! Sura, uno-pe pote face neo 
auxi-lingua; qi habe tali alo ali virtu. Sed mi kredi; id es ma boni 
detekti uno lingua; qi place tu, e dona auxi te id kresce.

>      I remain mystified by the fact that the language ability still 
>mystifies us.  It does seem that intuitive introspection OR some form of 
>very sophisticated statistical analysis of the language function will 
>finally yield the secrets of the human mind and how it converts ideas into 
>linear symbols of sound or sight.
>
>     But, for the moment I'll keep with Glosa.  I'm sorry to have muffed my 
>retirement: by now I should have hoarded my cash, and having stopped 
>working, should have been able to indulge in my fantasies like developing 
>Glosa, writing science fiction and playing jazz regularly, but no, I'm 
>chasing the dollar even after I've stopped earning.  Still got my fingers 
>crossed though: maybe I'll find the pot of gold, and then concentrate on 
>Glosa, and whatever.
>
>     One thing I know: I won't be tangentialising away from Glosa: at 67 I 
>haven't a chance of seeing a a language I create even get to second 
>base.  But then, I like Glosa, so would concentrate on perfecting it and 
>growing its user-base and corpus of published works, rather than dividing 
>my energies between Glosa and my own new language.
>
>     Once I've discovered financial security for my retirement, I could get 
>into serious linguistic research: there has to be an interesting 
>articulation between syntax and semantics.  And again I'd plunk for 
>simplicity.  I'd say I know the brain's grammar is syntactic, but there has 
>to be some parallel operation of the interaction between concepts and ideas 
>- of semantics - running close to, but slightly apart from, the rules of 
>syntax.
>
>     Is anyone else on the Glosalist thinking about language at this level?
>
> 
>
>
>  
>
Mi kredi; il es poli glosa-pe; qi este plu simila interese de lingua, in 
u-ci lista. Minima, mi. Sed in u-ci grama tu proposi poli dificili ra; 
qi debi gene puta ko poli kura! Mi spe dice ko tu e ali glosa-pe de 
plu-la ra ali-kron.

Vale!


