---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAyLjA0MDIxNTE5NTM1NzI5MzI0MzA1NDNAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDIxODA5MjQwOS4wMWZhYTRhMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 335
msgSnippet: 'Plu Karo Amika, I apologise for writing quickly in English. Thanks Laslo
  for your reply: it is not quite what I imagined in my mind s eye. - - -  Continued'
nextInTime: 336
nextInTopic: 342
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1077063480'
prevInTime: 334
prevInTopic: 327
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: ybPGvYEfq9A4Ih44Ew3fTGFgAu40nLQZSo9qhRg8-VqxeUIUVbx7e_LreyMVjyshecmA2K87FCIISvg_GeWQr2RU6C7cqGgRyz7h75OxKihs19b3Eg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Word system'
topicId: 323
userId: 147970330
---

Plu Karo Amika,
    I apologise for writing quickly in English.
    Thanks Laslo for your reply: it is not quite what I imagined in my 
mind's eye.
          - - -  Continued below:-

At 07:53 PM 2/15/04 +0100, you wrote:

>Hi Robin,
>
> >       Eng. If you briefly show the points with examples from Esperanto,
> > English and Glosa,such a contribution will give much more meaning to all of
> > us.
>
>   En Esp You can make up to 40 words using a single word-root and the 
> lexical formatives.
>
>san*a = being healthy
>san*o = health
>san*e = healthily
>san*u = be healthy
>san*IG*a = cure sy.
>san*ET*a = a little bit healthy
>san*EG*a = very healthy
>san*IG*i = to cure
>san*IG*o = the fakt of to cure
>san*IGX*i = to be recovering
>san*EC*o = health as feature
>san*UL*o = the man who is healthy
>san*UL*IN*o = the woman who is healthy
>san*IG*EBL*a = who can be recovered.
   ....
>MAL*san*IG*i = to make sy ill
>MAL*san*IGX*i = to geting ill
>MAL*san*UL*o = an ill man
>MAL*san*UL*IN*o = an ill woman
>MAL*san*EM*a = being sickly
>MAL*san*UJ*EJ*o = hospital
>MAL*san*UL*EJ*a = hospital (as adjective)
>NE*san*IG*EBL*a = incurable
>MAL*san*UL*AR*o = the multitude of ill people.
>(Maybe I made many errors while I was witing the translations)
>
>You can number the special words or expressions that a non-joined word 
>system needs in adition.
>
>I wont advice anyone to try to make new words using roots and endings: 
>hard + ly = hardly - because of the non joined word system of the English 
>or those other same languages.
>
>Other examples:
>Esp.:
>balai + ilo = balailo
>
>But Eng.:
>to sweep + tool = broom
>
>   So, you have to learn words in adition because of the non-joined 
> word-system.
>But in the meanwhile it is easier to read as "picture-reading" an 
>independent word (broom) than a joined word (balailo).
>
>   There are advantages and disadvantages using different word systems.
>But in accordance with the quantity of the words that you have to learn, 
>the joined word system lets you to use much fewer number of word roots and 
>expressions.

***  My hope is that if we discus Planned Language, or language in general, 
on this List, we do so in a way that all of us learn something, and in 
particular the cause of Glosa is advanced.
      Your post was a little like a promo for Esperanto, and compared 
Esperanto's logicality with the non-integrated nature of the lexicon of 
English.

       Basically, I suspect that the members of the Glosalist wish to avoid 
negative criticism and would prefer to hear criticism of the positive kind.

       So, yes, there are apparent efficiencies within the Esperanto 
system, but not everyone's mind works in this "filing cabinet" way.  A 
quick, sharp mind, on hearing a sequence of highly inflected words in a 
sentence, skips from one inflected additive to the next, gaining 
ever-sophisticated complexity of meaning during the fraction of a second 
that each incoming word has to play across their mind, be processed and 
understood, then clearing the mental slate, while the mind is made ready to 
receive the input of the next multivalent word.

       The ultra-logicality of language works in books where the mind can 
slow down and decode each word - at its own pace - finally assembling the 
collection of multifaceted signals into the meaningful encoding of these 
complexities into a string of ideas that blend into a satisfying 
communication called a sentence.  ... and then on to the next sentence 
composed of a new set of puzzles to be decoded and resynthesised into 
meaning.   Each successive, solved sentence-meaning must be added 
reflexively back to interact with the whole thread of thought created by 
the contribution of previous sentences.

       These comlicated sentences in English cannot possibly match the 
systematic logicality of Esperanto, but then, I might not want them to.

       Without getting caught up in wars between the languages, I make a 
plea here that when we speak, as well as conveying very precise meaning to 
the listener, we also wissh to keep him, or her, cool.

        DON'T OVERHEAT THE LISTENER'S BRAIN BY FORCING THEM INTO PLAYING 
MIND-GAMES WITH EVERY WORD.   This has the effect of turning the receiving 
of incoming communication into an experience similar to that of running 
through a minefield.

        We, as potential givers to the world, could ponder the gift we offer.
        Will the designed language adopted by the world for the purpose of 
global communication be efficient, soft and folksy, or virtually invisible?

         I plunk for the happy medium: when reading or hearing the "lingua 
munda," receivers of communication will, I hope, retain the idea 
communicated --- not a memory of the process by which the contained ideas 
came to them.  Time is a factor in this, and the inflection/additive 
process is also involved in the complexity, or otherwise, of the 
communication process.

        So, in an 'invisible' communication process, concepts are 
introduced into the brain at a rate at which they can be processed 
comfortably; also, the presence of additives to meaning - either within 
words (inflections), or as separate words themselves (particles) - add 
complexity to the concepts, not too quickly, and not too slowly.  This is 
Gaskell's Theory of Time: the rate of input of meaningful verbal signals 
ought to match, and certainly not exceed, the rate at which these signals 
are comfortably processed into meaning in the brain.

        How do our favourite languages score on the basis of this Time 
Theory?  Of course if we understand a language well, it is probably coming 
in at a rate that we find comfortable, with no mental 'heat' being produced 
by neurological friction during the communication process.

       But, if we genuinely wish to offer international communication on a 
truly global scale, we need to do so on the basis of properly conducted 
tests on the learning of, and communication in, the various contenders for 
adoption.
      Though concepts of efficiency, simplicity, standardisation, and 
lexical economy are exciting academic components of Linguistic discussion, 
they may not wash in the marketplace, or bazaar, of reality.

      One suggestion states that the adoption of any designed language 
would be a vast improvement in the world scene.  While this is definitely 
true, I wish that the 'good guys' offering the world an alternative 
tongue  consider NOT selling the wworld short, by promoting a designed 
language for wrong, or inccompletely thought-out motives.  Should I promote 
Glosa because it will lead to my appointment as the principal of the Sydney 
Glosa Institute... researching Glosa, and promoting and teaching it to the 
world?  [Economically this might be the only motivation that makes 
it  feasible for me put all of my effort into Glosa.]

       But, as a scientist, I would have to ask if all the tests had been 
done; and, the answer is "No."  It is virtually impossible to have 
disinterested research done in the area of spoken/written Planned 
Language.  Just about everyone has personal biases that skew them in favour 
of one designed language or another.

       I guess it is too late to ask members of the Glosalist to be 
disinterested in the quest for psychologically cool designed language, but 
I think it is worth a try.

Sorry, used up all the time allocation, and no examples in Glosa or English.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell 



