---
authorName: "T\xF3th L\xE1szl\xF3"
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: =?iso-8859-2?q?T=F3th=20L=E1szl=F3=20?= &lt;leslie_toth@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAwLjA0MDIyNTExNDUwMzA1MDg1Mzg2OTlAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 393
msgSnippet: 'Saluta a glosa-pe. ... It s about swearing. The mad people use to say:
  Go into your mother...xxx When making a new planned language for all the people,
  you'
nextInTime: 394
nextInTopic: 398
numMessagesInTopic: 21
postDate: '1077705903'
prevInTime: 392
prevInTopic: 390
profile: leslie_toth
replyTo: LIST
senderId: eT8fMPHhxw828eBqPgBXFItcCDIrlGiGyph21P9JWMvlPdsuCccckB2RsdjkoV5OGucMiH-OFE1DJQ_QW1PuchDF8E--iCkntR8swt2QhwfkRfeC0BR0liGrElDY-yHIn_XUWgk9GSzW
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Too much plainness'
topicId: 361
userId: 21276468
---


Saluta a glosa-pe.

 Manuel Walderrama pa grafo:
 
> So, it is easy to 
> =
use "matri" as a noun or adjective, but it is somewhat difficult, at 
> lea=
st for my limited mind, to use it as a verb. What would this verb 
> mean? =
"to be a mother", "to cause someone to become mother".
  
It's about sweari=
ng.
The mad people use to say: "Go into your mother...xxx"
 
When making a =
new planned language for all the people, you have to consult plenty of ethn=
ic languages in advance.

I got experience in teaching Esp and I'm sure, it=
 isn't an easy language. But I have found the bugs that make Esp difficult.=
 And I'm about to remove that bugs. 
The most of Esp experts declare consci=
ously lying, that the language is easy. Meantime the learnars are strugglin=
g and the most of they became illiterated on Esp even after several years o=
f learning, and they never achieve the ability of speaking. But there are o=
nly some things that should be changed to get a really easy language. In ca=
se of Esp it isn't about ambiguouness, but about use of some formatives, th=
e german  agglutine word system and the abuse of concizeness.

Sometimes a =
language need elements that give you a supplimentary insurance against ambi=
guousness. In the slavonic languages there are a lot of them (sure, too muc=
h as me). So they are overassured  in this meanning. 

The ambiguouness is =
the worst feature that obstacle the learners, and make them turn away from =
that language.

The Ido language is much more better than Esp, but it's mak=
ers didn't preserve the whole vocabulary (word roots) of Esp and this way t=
hey lost the support of Esp users, and made the language practically dead.
=
The Ido can be learnt two times easier than Esp and is the same expressful.=


I mentioned yet, that without national vocabularies non of the planned la=
nguage can spread.
Even Glosa need have dictionaries translated into many l=
anguages to prosper. 
The more in Glosa you can make ambiguous or meaningle=
ss sentences, the more the learners need lots of pieces of reading like fic=
tions, to get command in language. 

Another thing:
Has anybody already mad=
e experiences with learnars on Glosa according to how successfuly they can =
pick up the language errorless?
Has anybody count the time that ones need a=
chieve the errorless speaking ability in the language?
Those above question=
s can answer to the quality (concerned to the ease of learning) of a langua=
ge.


Plu saluta,

Laslo
