---
authorName: "T\xF3th L\xE1szl\xF3"
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: =?iso-8859-2?q?T=F3th=20L=E1szl=F3=20?= &lt;leslie_toth@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAyLjA0MDIyOTExMjI1MDg5MTI2NzMzMzlAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 399
msgSnippet: Dear Everybody, I think the difficulty of the English is not because of
  something like the use of personal pronouns, the word order, the use of word class
nextInTime: 400
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1078050170'
prevInTime: 398
prevInTopic: 0
profile: leslie_toth
replyTo: LIST
senderId: nZb_b4YZ-UfYSlc2avG2FG3I5Gabo1XnKltxkT5qPBlSqD_dWc9HpflqrS9iCOwa45HLLw2tJc1AInhW-j_zNZikVBpWkqPvLOBZ72zR4txajzWl0CeKeW_LdbXCM38ZHM61Nw9ViIqb
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: My last remarks at the end of the tail
topicId: 399
userId: 21276468
---


Dear Everybody,



  I think the difficulty of the English is not because =
of something like the use of personal pronouns, the word order, the use of =
word class endings (-al, -ly, -e, -ic, -ing, -ion, -ism, -ity, -ist, -ness,=
 -less, -ment and so) and so.   It's difficulty rise from it's irregular ch=
aracter: from the multi-meaning of the words, from the non-logic expresses =
('slow down' is a logic, but 'put sy up' is not, like "to mother"), irregul=
ar endings, and in a great measure from it's pronunciation. Of course, feat=
ures like these, that make a language difficult to be learnt are common thi=
ngs for all ethnic languages.

  But I would be very content if someone wou=
ld make from the English a language that would be phonetic and would have r=
egular endings, regular verbs, one-meaning words, and logic expressions (na=
turally, it no longer would be the old English  :-)  ).

  When I found the=
 Glosa I was very happy and hopeful. But then I discovered that it is not w=
hat I was searching.
I found an another "extreme language". And I don't lik=
e the extremes. This is my own problem.
The Glosa in this present unchanged=
 form is not cut out for me. Sure, it is a matter of personal taste.

  By =
all means I ought to thank "plu" you for wasting your time to answer to my =
questions, and for the possibility of exchanging ideas.

  To diligence on =
creating an easy to be learnt planned language for the humanity is a laudab=
le activity that is worthy to be appreciated independent of it's present re=
sults.

I wish "plu" you successful development on the Glosa in what follow=
s, and plenty of health!


Bye,
Laslo

