---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDQwMjIyLjE5MTU1MC4xODk2LjAuanVzdGkubWlsbGVyQGp1bm8uY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDIyOTE3NDQ0NS4wMWZjOTRiMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 406
msgSnippet: 'Dear Gary, I do not write many emails to you, because it is your policy
  to use the language, not discus it.  I appreciate your concept, and What you have '
nextInTime: 407
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1078039703'
prevInTime: 405
prevInTopic: 380
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: VTplvXzcpUKnIYjwrqWC7TtWmGQ1qa54ZTZzI7-vF4JKXqMv8opRWKIcFcTEtPcP_m7HXOSMLXdJqcU1hfKrusDoHUp61aGrQ9lgyNEqyScyMAvxJQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Qi'
topicId: 380
userId: 147970330
---

Dear Gary,
    I do not write many emails to you, because it is your policy to use the 
language, not discus it.  I appreciate your concept, and What you have 
achieved.  I would also rather talk about Glosa writing that has been done 
by subscribers to the list.

    But, the saddest part is that we are losing you because of events 
beyond your control.  I hope this is not the last time we see your 
call-sign and shaggy beard signing off.  Also I hope you find new work soon.

    From your item below, I suspect that you were too considerate to 
suggest that I was unnecessarily heavy-handed in my comments about ending a 
sentence with a preposition .. or with a relative pronoun.
    So, as a part of my last message to you, especially, I do not want to 
go on at length.
At 07:15 PM 2/22/04 -0600, you wrote:

>Karo Glosa ami,
>
>Igor, tu habe u mega ski de lingua skience.  Tu pa gene id qo-lo?
>
>Robin pa grafo:
>
>              Mi ne ski u ra; an pa grafo de.
>ALO     Mi ne ski u ra; an pa grafo de qi.
>                                Qe, na dice 'kako' uti Glosa?
>                                Bi de plu-ci frasa kausa no-hedo-ra.
>        Mi vo dice ke bi habe ero, e ne sio debi es ge-doci iso Glosa.
>     [I wish to say that both are wrong, and should not be taught as
>Glosa.
***  I might apologise for using such strong lanuage.

>U proto frase es exakti u stru; u bibli _18 Gradu_ ma amo (vide Gradu 15
>e 18).  Hogben _Interglossa_ pa habe u regula; SU (nu-tem QI) debi es
>solo u nima-verba de frase-mero.  Mi idio ma amo: "Mi ne ski u ra; de qi
>an pa grafo"; qi plus gene uti in _18 Gradu_ (!).
>
>Un idea pa es: England lingua habe mo verba pro bi ra: WHAT es u
>qestio-verba e u relativi pro-nima.  Plu hetero lingua nece uti bi verba
>pro u ra bi, per England-lingua THAT WHICH es plus posi.  Glosa nu uti qo
>ra?
>
>EN:  The idea was that English has one word for two things:  WHAT is a
>question word and a relative pronoun.  Other languages need to use two
>words for the second one; in English THAT WHICH is also possible.  Which
>construction should Glosa use?  I believe the two-word construction
>occurs in the underlying semantics even in languages which use only one
>word for the relative phrase.  I thought about diagraming the sentences
>for you, but...
***   While grammatically correct usage in English is a bit of a rarity, 
nowadays, if Glosa is ever to be taught, then "correct structure within 
phrases and clauses" would be a major part of the instruction ... simply 
because good Glosa has good syntax. [ Meanwhile, the converse could also be 
said to be true. ]

    Compare the   18 steps ... "   "Mi ne ski u ra; an pa grafo de."
     With Gary's preferred:           "Mi ne ski u ra; de qi an pa grafo"

       One has an 'unfinished' feel to it; the other flows, and sounds 
complete.
       Simply, Gary demonstrates an innate understanding of syntax.

>Mi ne volu dice de gramatika.  Mi volu simpli dice per Glosa.  Mi amo
>komunika, anti-co gramatika sti fatiga mi, idio kron es no-nece.
***  I would hope that most of us are attracted to Glosa as a 
'communication medium.'
       Also, I trust that we would like to see more use of it in this way.

>Po lose mo ergo, mi pa habe no-facili habe funktio pro Glosa.  Mi ne pote
>bali plu Glosa ra per posta homo pre, e mi nece detekti u neo ergo.
***  Tu es intra na plu puta.  Holo-na bali a tu na plu maxi boni volu.


>Kausa bi-ci ra, mi fu apo se ab u-ci lista e ab Glosa ergo uno-tem.  Mi
>volu boni fortuna a Glosa!
***  Gracia!


>A re-vide,
>  _  _
>   /.   Gary
>#/\#
>  ###
*** Asura, na vo re-vide tu signatura marka; qi es u maxi boni; mi pa vide,

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell


>________________________________________________________________
>The best thing to hit the Internet in years - Juno SpeedBand!
>Surf the Web up to FIVE TIMES FASTER!
>Only $14.95/ month - visit www.juno.com to sign up today!
>
>
>
>
>Yahoo! Groups Links
>
>
>
>



