---
authorName: Marshall and Endemann
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Marshall and Endemann &lt;vaiaata@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDAwM2YwMWMzODFlMyRmMTRlMzZhMCQ3NjY0OTczZUB0dWVyZXNtYXM+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEJDNzM3OUM4LkRFNDMldmFpYWF0YUBpaHVnLmNvLm56Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 419
msgSnippet: On March 20 In the Pilgrims Church in Leiden, the Netherlands, an international
  choir of nearly 200 high school students (with two wind bands) will present
nextInTime: 420
nextInTopic: 423
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1078792825'
prevInTime: 418
prevInTopic: 196
profile: vaiaata
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 9tMW26e4wlJsnJTOmoI2wm3RegVHQA0Tik3RsL8kyI-oOzCJPdtY4J2lup_XqyvYdJZQJrUe1C0djBXjytQUjxHglsb_Zwr_nsTFJC_2Fa1s
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: World Premiere
topicId: 196
userId: 538477
---


On March 20 In the Pilgrims' Church in Leiden, the Netherlands, an
interna=
tional choir of nearly 200 high school students (with two wind bands)
will =
present the premiere of a specially commissioned 10 minute work 'U
Trau'. 
=

This will be the first ever performance of a text in the Niuspi language,
=
though I am working on others.

Niuspi is very much a work in progress. It =
grew out of the brief for this
commissioned work: a non-religious, positive=
 text with an international
flavour. After months of exploring Esperanto, I=
do, Glosa and Lojban a new
language seemed to start growing spontaneously a=
s I wrote the text - a very
peculiar experience! So far much of the basic g=
rammar is in place - but only
a few hundred words. It is pretty stable, the=
 last change (Glosa's
numerative 'plu' being replaced by 'zi' for aesthetic=
 reasons) occurred
several months ago.

As you will see from the text and t=
ranslation below, by far the strongest
influence on Niuspi is Glosa. I love=
 the creative flexibility of a truly
isolating language, though (from a mus=
ical standpoint I stress) I find
Glosa's constant polysyllabic nature a bit=
 clunky. I thought there must be
some reason for why many of the world's is=
olating languages seemed to be
primarily monosyllabic. Besides I like the c=
ompactness of monosyllables. The
maximum formula of 'ccvv' will eventually =
allow for around 3000 base words -
though for now there are only a few hund=
red!

I was frustrated by the halfway phonetic nature of all the languages =
I
studied - even Glosa with its 'c' being pronounced 'tsh', 'x' as 'ks', 's=
c'
as 'sh', 'j' as 'dj' etc, though I understand the rationale behind those=

apparent inconsistencies.

From a singer's point of view, final consonants=
 are a huge nuisance -
particularly the frequent, unpredictable and difficu=
lt-to-pronounce clusters
in English and German where a double final consona=
nt meets the double (or
even triple) initial consonant of the following wor=
d. All four or five
consonants must be compressed into a split second at th=
e beginning of a
note. And this is not merely a musical concern. In all my =
years in my
previous profession, teaching English as a second language, fin=
al consonants
were for many speakers a huge barrier to fluid pronunciation.=


For speakers of some languages even the double consonants of Niuspi might=

look tongue tying. If so, and a brief schwa appears between their
consonan=
ts, comprehension is not at all impeded because the schwa does not
otherwis=
e exist in Niuspi.

Here is the text of 'U Trau' followed by an English tra=
nslation and the
pronunciation guide that accompanied the music. In additio=
n, a recording of
the text read is available for download from the internet=
 at
<http://www.vaiaata.com/niuspi.html>. By the way, please do not judge t=
he
text on poetic grounds. I did my best and the ideas expressed are sincer=
e,
but in the end it is the work of a composer who needed a text to provide=
 a
structure upon which to build the music!

U Trau    
The Dream

Mi pa ha=
e u trau....
Mi pa trau ke Gaia pa bi u gja ple i zi au kla floa.
Mi pa tra=
u ke Gaia pa bi mo nzio e u tou hua o le zi nziope.
Mi pa trau ke u hua pa =
bi u fmi, e au pe zi zbi; e ke zi ho e fe pa ge ksoi
gua, smi duo flue o bv=
i.

I had a dream....
I dreamt that the earth was a garden full of flowers =
of every colour.
I dreamt that the earth was one nation and all humanity it=
s citizens.
I dreamt that humankind was a family; and all people brothers a=
nd sisters;
and that men and women were seen as equal, like the two wings o=
f a bird.
    
Mi pa trau o muo i ke au gue pa pa sto, i ke u pae pa flo sm=
i rio.
Mi pa trau o muo i ke pa ge bi u nui pro ca fae pe, u hlai pro ca ma=
u pe, u
kfoa pro ca trie pe, au ge gi pro lau;
U muo i ke ca pe pa hae u do=
, i ke u rai pa ge cea, i ke ca hua bio pa bi u
ge zreo bju.

I dreamt of a=
 world where all wars had ceased, where peace flowed like a
river.
I dreamt=
 of a world where there was food for the hungry, healing for the
sick, comf=
ort for the sad, all given out of love;
A world where everybody had a home,=
 where wealth was shared, where each
human life was a jewel to be treasured=
.
    
Mi pa trau ke Gaia pa bi u hau e au biole o le zi haupe.
Mi pa trau =
ke u tou hua pa zvea Gaia: o le klea kua, o le puo ea, o le no
mbea beu, o =
le mzie.
Mi pa trau ke au griape pa crei u trea, au pcipe pa crei u mae; e =
ke u tou
hua i ca lo pa pui hea u kco o Gaia.

I dreamt that the Earth was =
a house and all living things its tenants.
I dreamt that all humanity cared=
 for the earth, its clear water, its clean
air, its incomparable beauty, it=
s mystery.
I dreamt that all farmers cherished the land, all fishermen cher=
ished the
sea; and that all humanity everywhere could hear the song of the =
earth.
    
E mi pa vae, e mi pa vi, e mi pa di:
Li nu ski o Gaia nzie kco,=

Vai nu kri u niu kco pro hua,
Li nu kco pro beu fu tai,
Pro zi sfia cie, z=
i mrea mae,
Pro lau e jua e spie e pae,
U fu tai ple i zi voe o zi kni,
U f=
u tai ple i zi trau.
Nu hae u trau..... 

And I woke, and I saw, and I said=
:
Let us learn the earth=B9s ancient song,
While we write a new song for hu=
manity,
Let us sing for a beautiful future,
For sapphire skies and emerald =
seas,
For love and joy and wisdom and peace,
A future full of the voices of=
 children,
A future full of dreams.
We have a dream....

************  

Pr=
onunciation

The text of U Trau is in Niu Spi, a language with a vocabulary=
 derived
mainly from Indo-European languages and with a grammar which in so=
me aspects
resembles Chinese. The following guide covers most issues.

=85 =
All Niu Spi vowels are similar to Italian vowels.

=85 Niu Spi diphthongs r=
etain the value of both vowels. In the sung language,
always move quickly t=
o the second vowel. On a long note or melisma it is the
second vowel that i=
s sustained, not the first as is usual in English.

=85 Niu Spi consonants =
are similar to English consonants with the following
exceptions:
c =3D Engl=
ish sh 
g =3D always hard as in the English girl
h =3D preferably hard, lik=
e the Arabic h
j =3D soft, as in the French jaune
r =3D preferably slightly=
 rolled, as in the French r=EAve
q, w, x and y do not exist in Niu Spi

=85=
 For English speakers some initial double consonants such as nz, zr, bj,
mr=
, kn, may look difficult. However Niu Spi words have no final consonants
an=
d few breaks between words, so such sounds present no problem when
practise=
d as part of the phrase in which they occur.
 
=85 In two syllable words su=
ch as biole (living thing) and griape (farmer) the
first syllable is slight=
ly stressed.

_________________________________________

Well, that's it! I=
 will continue to use and develop Niuspi as I write new
texts for my music.=
 Whether it has any application outside this very
specialised personal use =
I do not know. Since it was these lists that gave
me invaluable building bl=
ocks for my own language I thought I would run some
of the basics of it pas=
t people with experience in this area. I would
appreciate your suggestions.=
 In the next few days of preparation before
flying to Europe I doubt I will=
 have much chance to respond but will be able
to do so more fully when I re=
turn at the beginning of April.

I've no idea what sort of reception my mus=
ic will get in Holland - and I've
even less idea of how they will view my '=
international text' - hopefully not
with ridicule! The students and teacher=
s are already rehearsing their music
and so far their reaction has been pos=
itive.

Regards,

Chris

--
Christopher Marshall - composer

vaiaata@ihug.c=
o.nz

http://www.vaiaata.com







