---
authorName: Mario Montijo
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Mario Montijo&quot; &lt;mariomontijo@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGMybHMyNiszZ2dtQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 422
msgSnippet: Maya Nara 3 U xilo avi Uno kron il pa es u koragi e dina milita pe. An
  pa hedo ki de casa e freqe pa case dia plu dendro poste plu zoa. In mo de an case
  iti an
nextInTime: 423
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1078883206'
prevInTime: 421
prevInTopic: 0
profile: mariomontijo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: -bveLwfh5GU7CcBwWipWDkHf_vYnnVmRkmJZcCvIakfFktBan58hXErRX_lX56JAEl7JGJxtfhaMyB3noL8JJ-dQGTvlpUTNyASfwLWRQg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Paloma de madera, paloma torcas
topicId: 422
userId: 146050109
---

Maya Nara 3

U xilo avi
Uno kron il pa es u koragi e dina milita pe. An pa =
hedo ki de casa e 
freqe pa case dia plu dendro poste plu zoa. In mo de an =
case iti an 
pa veni ad u limno e pro an mega subito pa vide u fo kali gina=
 ante 
an, du remi u navi. U milita pe pa este ta ge amo ke an pa re veni a=
d 
u auto topo in poli okasio ko u spe de vide fe itera. Id pa es holo 
in =
vani, holo an pa vide pa es u splendi plu hidro de u limno. Po-co 
an pa ce=
rka konsili de u fe magika-pe qi pa dice an: 
=96Tu nuli kron fu vide fe it=
era si ne tu auto deveni in u avi.=96
=96Mi solo volu vide fe itera!=96
=96=
Si tu deveni u avi tu nuli kron re gene tu humani morfo.=96
=96Mi solo volu=
 vide fe itera!=96
=96Si u-la es qod tu volu tu fu habe tu desira=96
E u fe=
 magika-pe pa aku u akanta in an kolo e ko u-la u ju-pe deveni 
u avi. An p=
a vola ana e pa ki ad u limno e sto supra u rami. Po u 
pusi tem an pa vide=
 u gina e no abili de auto sto, pa kade a fe pedi 
e pa karesa fe kilo kron=
.
U gina kapti an in fe manu e du simpati an, pa apo u akanta de an 
kolo.
=
Fe nuli-tem pa debi face id!. U avi pa lase klina an kefa e pa kade 
ge mor=
ta. Du vide u-ci, u gina,  in fe no-spe pa aku se u auto akanta 
in fe kolo=
 e imedia pa deveni u avi. De u-la di a fu-tem fe pa 
lamenta u morta de fe=
 avi.

http://www.mayadiscovery.com/ing/legends/default.htm


MAYA LEGEND 3=


THE WOOD PIGEON 
Once upon a time there was a brave and strong warrior. H=
e loved to go 
hunting and often chased through the woods after animals. On=
 one of 
his hunting trips he reached a lake and to his great surprise saw =
a 
beautiful woman before him, rowing a boat. The warrior fell so much 
in =
love that he returned to the same spot on many occasions in the 
hope of se=
eing her again. It was all in vain, however, as all he saw 
were the gleami=
ng waters of the lake. Thus, he sought advice from a 
witch, who told him:
=
=96You will never see her again unless you turn yourself into a dove.=96
=
=96I only want to see her again!=96
=96If you become a dove you will never =
regain your human form.=96
=96I only want to see her again!=96
=96If that i=
s what you want you shall have your desire.=96
And the witch thrust a thorn=
 into his neck and with that the young 
man became a dove. He flew up and w=
ent to the lake and settled on a 
branch. After a little while he saw the w=
oman and, unable to contain 
himself, he lay down by her feet and caressed =
her a thousand times. 
The woman took him in her hands and, petting him, to=
ok out the thorn 
from his neck. She should never have done it! The dove dr=
opped his 
head and collapsed dead. Seeing this, the woman, in desperation =

thrust the same thorn into her neck and at once became a dove. From 
that =
day on she has mourned the death of her dove

http://www.mayadiscovery.com/=
ing/legends/default.htm




