---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PEJDNzM3OUM4LkRFNDMldmFpYWF0YUBpaHVnLmNvLm56Pg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDMwOTIzMDUxNC4wMWZkNmVjMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDAwM2YwMWMzODFlMyRmMTRlMzZhMCQ3NjY0OTczZUB0dWVyZXNtYXM+
layout: email
msgId: 423
msgSnippet: '... ***  Sounds very intuitive, and possibly biassed towards signing.
  But very promising. While the ideology behind Glosa is more related to problem-solving '
nextInTime: 424
nextInTopic: 424
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1078837502'
prevInTime: 422
prevInTopic: 419
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: KV310-91uJF2lMhR4hdG4_rUqPR8D0Y9PLFmclZyUgKdW_jDs3E_mTuLIzqCPGUg3Y5SM_6qBFNl8UMmVoXo-Ue9qc3eS5BwXzKXPC7VDiVfRKSOHg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] World Premiere'
topicId: 196
userId: 147970330
---

At 01:40 PM 3/9/04 +1300, you wrote:


>On March 20 In the Pilgrims' Church in Leiden, the Netherlands, an
>international choir of nearly 200 high school students (with two wind bands)
>will present the premiere of a specially commissioned 10 minute work 'U
>Trau'.
>
>This will be the first ever performance of a text in the Niuspi language,
>though I am working on others.
>
>Niuspi is very much a work in progress. It grew out of the brief for this
>commissioned work: a non-religious, positive text with an international
>flavour. After months of exploring Esperanto, Ido, Glosa and Lojban a new
>language seemed to start growing spontaneously as I wrote the text - a very
>peculiar experience! So far much of the basic grammar is in place - but only
>a few hundred words. It is pretty stable, the last change (Glosa's
>numerative 'plu' being replaced by 'zi' for aesthetic reasons) occurred
>several months ago.
>
>As you will see from the text and translation below, by far the strongest
>influence on Niuspi is Glosa. I love the creative flexibility of a truly
>isolating language,
***  Sounds very intuitive, and possibly biassed towards signing.
       But very promising.

       While the ideology behind Glosa is more related to "problem-solving" 
than to the beauty of sound, I'd say from a marketing viewpoint, Niuspi has 
more publicc appeal than Glosa.
       And basing our logic on the fact that the world needs a global 
medium of communication, adoption of any of the top ten Planned Languages 
would be an exceedingly good thing.
If singing achieves this end, then hats off to the language and to the 
person who conceived it.

       The real-world problem is the mechanics of creating a lexicon that 
allows civilised discussion of all of the world's pressing matters.  To 
decide what must be the minimum number of such lexicon items - preferably 
with songs being able to be  be sung about them, we are limited to a finite 
range of concepts.  The CCVV range of letters can be a physical barrier to 
vocabulary formation, especially after all of the suitable singable, 
four-letter combinations have been used.  This suggests that Niuspi would 
need a clear rule for the coining of the technical terminology 
covering  matters beyond those discussed by the man in the street, or, for 
that matter, which are the the subject of songs.


>though (from a musical standpoint I stress) I find
>Glosa's constant polysyllabic nature a bit clunky. I thought there must be
>some reason for why many of the world's isolating languages seemed to be
>primarily monosyllabic. Besides I like the compactness of monosyllables. The
>maximum formula of 'ccvv' will eventually allow for around 3000 base words -
>though for now there are only a few hundred!
>
>
>U Trau
>The Dream
>
>Mi pa hae u trau....
>Mi pa trau ke Gaia pa bi u gja ple i zi au kla floa.
>Mi pa trau ke Gaia pa bi mo nzio e u tou hua o le zi nziope.
>Mi pa trau ke u hua pa bi u fmi, e au pe zi zbi; e ke zi ho e fe pa ge ksoi
>gua, smi duo flue o bvi.
>
>I had a dream....
>I dreamt that the earth was a garden full of flowers of every colour.
>I dreamt that the earth was one nation and all humanity its citizens.
>I dreamt that humankind was a family; and all people brothers and sisters;
>and that men and women were seen as equal, like the two wings of a bird.
>

***   While you are attracted to monosyllabic words, I enjoy the 
etymological approach whereby the derivation of a concept's word is found 
within the parts of that word.

       However, I especially liked the  ~pa pa~  = [had].
       And so, to bed.

Saluta.

Robin Gaskell
   P.S.  Willl the CD of "U Trau" be available after the performance? 



