---
authorName: Marshall and Endemann
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Marshall and Endemann &lt;vaiaata@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDMwOTIzMDUxNC4wMWZkNmVjMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEJDNzVENkI2LkRFOTEldmFpYWF0YUBpaHVnLmNvLm56Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 424
msgSnippet: '... Robin, Thanks very much for such a positive response to Niuspi and
  to this project. ... Those are very valid points which I have given some thought
  to, and'
nextInTime: 425
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1078947686'
prevInTime: 423
prevInTopic: 423
profile: vaiaata
replyTo: LIST
senderId: lQSkSP6FlztyjEDNtE1qOe5Us48QcbA_VjyMhsrG9bdSLS70x3VjSGfDfqs1bp0KRpBWWT35LouCCtYaeB-P0RH1Y5MkGpXK1AHFlqSVmMgL
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] World Premiere'
topicId: 196
userId: 538477
---

on 10/3/04 2:05 AM, Robin Gaskell at drought-breaker@... wrote:

> ***  Sounds very intuitive, and possibly biassed towards signing.
> But very promising.
> 
> While the ideology behind Glosa is more related to "problem-solving"
> than to the beauty of sound, I'd say from a marketing viewpoint, Niuspi has
> more publicc appeal than Glosa.
> And basing our logic on the fact that the world needs a global
> medium of communication, adoption of any of the top ten Planned Languages
> would be an exceedingly good thing.
> If singing achieves this end, then hats off to the language and to the
> person who conceived it.

Robin,

Thanks very much for such a positive response to Niuspi and to this project.

> The real-world problem is the mechanics of creating a lexicon that
> allows civilised discussion of all of the world's pressing matters.  To
> decide what must be the minimum number of such lexicon items - preferably
> with songs being able to be  be sung about them, we are limited to a finite
> range of concepts.  The CCVV range of letters can be a physical barrier to
> vocabulary formation, especially after all of the suitable singable,
> four-letter combinations have been used.  This suggests that Niuspi would
> need a clear rule for the coining of the technical terminology
> covering  matters beyond those discussed by the man in the street, or, for
> that matter, which are the the subject of songs.

Those are very valid points which I have given some thought to, and which I
would like to explore further with you when I get back.

> ***   While you are attracted to monosyllabic words, I enjoy the
> etymological approach whereby the derivation of a concept's word is found
> within the parts of that word.

Yes, admittedly in the interests of form and aesthetics Niuspi moves away
from this ideal - one of Glosa's strongest points - so the derivation is
sometimes difficult to trace. But as it moves away by the same token it also
comes closer to language families further afield. For example I seemed to
arrive at 'mle' for milk (probably thinking Fr 'lait' from 'lactum' and
northern 'milk/milch' and unknowingly ended up closest to Slavonic 'mleko'.
And there are more much stranger instances!
 
> However, I especially liked the  ~pa pa~  = [had].
> And so, to bed.

Mi spei ke tu pa bo doi.

> Will the CD of "U Trau" be available after the performance?

It will certainly be recorded for CD. I'm not sure in what form it will be
released but will let you know. Whatever, I will be putting an mp3 and
RealMedia file of the performance on my website.

Many thanks for your interest.

I tu sao,

Chris


