---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGMyaWpxcStqMnFoQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDMxMjE0MzYzMi4wMWZmNDdiMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 429
msgSnippet: Plu Amika, I rush a comment in English.  I suggest, that from the reader
  s angle, hyphens for compound words do make a significant difference. ... ***  Nu-di,
nextInTime: 430
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1079068617'
prevInTime: 428
prevInTopic: 418
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: MogJsaU7PrATF4OOH5QoUYfiSgtl0rur1ng46Akunxn7CaGDafv0Hv1kxx8LVdTEWUQKVDzvgS8KRa8En8zQ3vytJJYaWjFfNmcadjrQnULob46KEg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Multi felici a plu gina'
topicId: 418
userId: 147970330
---

Plu Amika,
    I rush a comment in English.  I suggest, that from the reade=
r's angle, 
hyphens for compound words do make a significant difference.

A=
t 08:07 PM 3/8/04 +0000, you wrote:

>U Di de u Gina
>
>Nu di, di 8 meno tr=
i, inter natio di de u gina es boni pro valu plu
>munda kompli in materia d=
e u iso de sexu ge prokura in nu pa deka

***  Nu-di, di 8 meno-tri, un Int=
er-natio-di de u Gina, es   ......

I feel that in Glosa, the language work=
s well, but it works even better if 
the writer projects his mind out to th=
e reader.  In this first line, I 
believe that the capitals and hyphens add=
 substance and integrity to the 
words ... and the concepts they convey.
  =
  "International Day" is really one thing not three.  By grouping the 
comp=
onent words using hyphens, the compound concept of an international day 
ro=
lls off the page into the consciousness.  And for the significance of the 
=
particular day, capitalisation does raise its importance: it was the only 
=
day, so labelled.

     A trickle of separate little words entering the con=
sciousness of the 
reader needs to be re-assembled into larger conceptual u=
nits by the 
reader!   Should, perhaps, the writer, who knows the conceptua=
l structure 
of what he is trying to convey, make the effort to convey this=
 structure - 
through using the facilities that are available to him - in h=
is writing


>anua, sed plus es nece verifi plu acide de odio, opresi e vio=
le qi
>debi fronta plu gina in plu prima tem de u ci centi anua XXI.
***  I=
n trying to read the rest of this sentence, I sought a flow, and a 
"chunki=
ng" of words into meaningful groups.  I do know that to English- 
speakers,=
 the sound of spoken French is reminiscent of a babbling brook: it 
just ke=
eps flowing with little fluctuation.  So, there is a case in Glosa 
for spe=
aking with changes of pitch to indicate endings of sentences 
[dropping pit=
ch] and continuations in new directions within  sentences 
[rising pitch]; =
and, this case is extended into written speech through the 
use of suitable=
 punctuation, which indicates the vocal inflection that 
would have been us=
ed, were the passage to have been spoken.

      Whether we hear the groupi=
ngs, indicated in speech via vocal 
inflection, or 'feel' the groupings in =
written work, by 'sensing' the 
punctuation, I wonder if other Glosa-pe und=
erstand the flow in Glosa in the 
same way.  By the way, pauses in speech a=
lso seem necessary in structured 
language; and, Glosa, having a grammar ba=
sed on the position and 
interlocation of the words (Syntax-based Grammar) =
does appear to need such 
pauses as well as capital letters and good punctu=
ation.  Although it has 
completely gone out of fashion in editing, I still=
 prefer to use the 
double-space between sentences.
      I noticed that Si=
d observed this with a central stop between 
sentences   IE    ~ .... fini =
de previo frasa . komence de neo frasa ... ~


>In Amerika e Europa il es u=
 ge expresi e kresce janua de plu gina a
>plu topo de pote politika e ekomo=
mi, e plus, a plu importa loka de
>kultura, tekno, juri e sporta.
***   Not=
 too sure of how I hear the concepts in my head, here.

     ~Intra America=
 e Europa, il es un expresi e u du-aperi janua de plu 
gina in plu dina lok=
a de politika e un ekonomi, ... ~

      [In America and Europe, there is a=
n expression and an opening door 
of/for women in powerful positions in/of =
politics and the economy, ... ]
        Perhaps the use of prepositions in =
English is more of the problem 
than the use of prepositions in Glosa.

   =
    Don't really know if the complex compound, "an opening door" was 
your =
intention, and ~du-aperi~ is the best I can do for "opening" ... as an 
adj=
ective ... in Glosa.

       The concept of "thinking in Glosa" is still an=
 idea I am 
promoting.  Maybe it is much harder than Ron Clark or I thought=
.  But it is 
the only solution to the problem of importing national-langua=
ge idioms and 
metaphors into Glosa.   Agreed 'an opening door for women' h=
as to be a 
metaphor, and something best avoided in Glosa.  Will the Chines=
e speaker of 
Glosa know that this is a metaphor, and not literal speech?

=
       It might even be something to do with strange European ideas of good=
 
manners, with the holding of doors open for women.

>Anti-co uno no devi =
no-memo; in plu natio qi auto dice "demo krati"
>e "ge civiliza", seque ge =
existe u koleri faktu de domi viole in qi
>plu gina es plu major viktimi.
*=
**  ~ ... seque ge existe u ... ~
    ? [ following existed the ]
   ??  ~ =
... u ge-kontinu existe de
       [the continued existence of ]

>U ci 8 de=
 meno tri es u di pro gratula de plu kompli, sed plus, pro
>simpati ko plu =
miliona de viktimi de odio, viole, margina e opresi qi
>ankora existe supra=
 u semi de u homi.
***   This has to be a translation from a heavily metaph=
ored news item.

      ~ ... ankora existe intra u semi de homi.~
         =
   [still exists (with)in a half of mankind]

      over =3D above; more th=
an     (Not a good word to translate into Glosa 
text.)              There =
is a case here for using the right word(s).

     ~ ... ankora existe intra=
 ma de u semi de homi.~
           [still exists in more than a half of man=
kind]

>Plus, nu di es u nati di de mi ge-amo matri... =ADMulti felici matr=
i=A1
***  A nice touch, Mario.  I trust that your mother was impressed that=
 they 
held the International Day of Women on her birthday.

       I feel =
that both ~di~ would have been better hyphenated.  In the 
English equivale=
nts, both concepts are written as compounds.
         nu-di =3D to-day
    =
     nati-di =3D birthday

Saluta,

Robin 



