---
authorName: Marshall and Endemann
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Marshall and Endemann &lt;vaiaata@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEJDREEwQkFCLkVFMjAldmFpYWF0YUBpaHVnLmNvLm56Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 457
msgSnippet: 'Greetings: Back in March I announced on this list the premiere in the
  Netherlands of a piece of music with a text in the language constructed for that
  purpose,'
nextInTime: 458
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1085518443'
prevInTime: 456
prevInTopic: 0
profile: vaiaata
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 7s-lOlSZnuJt47GH8HXIpJbMIW_oI4SlI__GSRpGFcuz0mOwXN3ZCkzqoHhmfQmEGwabTh0RijzpjrNYjkU1IQL5WUjUO0_ioqZ2OzuRLeb_
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: '&#39;U Trau&#39;'
topicId: 457
userId: 538477
---


Greetings:

Back in March I announced on this list the premiere in the Netherlands of a
piece of music with a text in the language constructed for that purpose,
'Niuspi' a variant of Glosa.

The piece was called 'U Trau'. It was written for two wind bands and a choir
of nearly 200 international students.

I am happy to report back that the premiere on March 20, in Pieterskerk in
Leiden was a great success.

Niuspi seemed to be embraced by the students who immediately took to
creating short sentences and expressions (of a lighthearted nature) from the
song text - and forming, according to Niuspi phonetic principles, additional
words, some of which are now official Niuspi.

I still haven't received a recording of the event, but there is a photo of
the performance on my website <http://www.vaiaata.com/u_trau.html> along
with the text and translation.

At <http://www.vaiaata.com/niuspi_texts.html> there's a possible future song
text - an extract from the Song of Solomon - and a letter I subsequently
wrote to the participants in the AMIS event. There are other texts too but
they need fine tuning!

Yesterday I had confirmation that 'U Trau' will be performed at the Blue
Lake Summer Camp in Michigan in July 2005 by around 300 singers and
instrumentalists of senior high-school and university level. And there is a
strong possibility of a third performance in Illinois at around the same
time.

I'm not sure where Niuspi will go from here. But I was so encouraged by the
response of the performers and audience in Leiden that I'm sure I'll be
looking for any excuse to combine music and Niuspi on future occasions!

Thank you to those who sent their best wishes when I first announced the 'U
Trau' project. I welcome your comments and will keep this list informed of
future Niuspi developments.

Regards,

Chris

--
Christopher Marshall - composer

vaiaata@...

http://www.vaiaata.com










[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


