---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGQ0NGxqdCtqNm9mQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDQyMDIzNTgyNy4wMjliNWQ3MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PGQ0NGxqdCtqNm9mQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 509
msgSnippet: '... Glad you like Glosa. Guess you have not looked far into its reason
  for being. Yes we do take messages in other languages; prefer to have the first
  language'
nextInTime: 510
nextInTopic: 510
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1114013921'
prevInTime: 508
prevInTopic: 508
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: ceIR1ocDMXZi3AJjnoamus1aVu2sYF-uhfk2Aq_MqdhJjK0bv2BJxkKJWp3Fd5Y66fQwsYzHQIeuBektcItj-oX0kV3zwmGW7F-SdNDrIZZqPmrYMi2cmVANa7_Kpk3p
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Glosa in the Information Age'
topicId: 508
userId: 147970330
---


>Hi Don,

    Glad you like Glosa.
    Guess you have not looked far into its reason for being.
    Yes we do take messages in other languages; prefer to have the first 
language plus Glosa; OR as I usually do... think in Glosa, write the Glosa, 
then give an English language rendition.
        ~mi grafo uti Glosa; seqe, mi grafo uti England Lingua.~
         ' I write in Glosa, then I write in English.'
     However, I see no actual conceptual leap in using the "Graffiti" font, 
other than to facilitate the writing of info on a hand-held stylus-input 
computer.
     In Glosa, the hidden flaw has always been the need to teach people who 
use alternative writing schemes to the Roman alphabet, how to write in this 
script.  The second hidden flaw has been in trying to get people to use 
plain (non-metaphor) thinking and to put these '''concept/words''' into 
pure, syntactical sentences.
           ...The use of  "Graffiti" script addresses neither of these 
problems.
      I very strongly suspect that the lower-case, simple Latin script is 
easier to read than the upper-case version of this script, and, even 
without much experience of it, I believe the Graffiti font, with its 
irregularly shaped letters would be even harder to read, and possibly more 
tiring to the eyes, than having to struggle through pages of Latin script 
USING ONLY CAPITAL LETTERS!
      While I respect your search for better ways of achieving 
international written/typed communication than at present, I'd say that 
adopting an easily written font for the Latin script - especially one based 
on the upper-case form of that script - is not the way to go.
       Worse than that, I would imagine that adopting an easily 
stylus-written script is a rationalisation for using 'Notepad-type' 
computers created by an executive of a note-pad type corporation.
       I would also question the existence of educational research trials 
testing the ease of learning of Graffiti font by school-children, both 
those in Latin-script culture and those living in cultures with other than 
Latin script.

       While Blissymbols was an obvious attempt to come up with a 
culture-free set of communication symbols, these are not easy to write, and 
there is no spoken form for them. They could be written and read 
internationally - within a very limited 'vocabulary' range, but they would 
not pass the "telephone test."  And Graffiti font used with Glosa, for that 
matter, would do nothing to make speaking Glosa any easier.

       In all seriousness, just to show that I have not avoided thinking 
about innovative symbology in relation to Glosa, I wwould mention 
SYNTAX.  In the task of teaching an Iternational Alternative Language, 
possibly Glosa, to the world, of much greater significance than coming up 
with a better font, is the question of teaching a suitable use of 
syntax.  By doing a bit of searching in the stacks at Sydney University, I 
found two elderly books that contained alphanumeric symbol systems for 
demonstrating and teaching the use of syntax.
       Now, although it might be a secret, Glosa has a system of grammar 
that I have described as 'Syntax-based."  The Glosa authors' idea was for 
people to use plain, and somewhat standardised, language that followed an 
agreed '''natural''' syntax.   There was a problem with this: the authors 
of Glosa had not written down the rules of syntax that Glosa was supposed 
to follow; nor were there any abstract symbols to indicate a syntactical 
statement.
      You guessed it: I settled down to the task of creating a set of 
symbols that could be used to indicate a syntactic sequence ... without 
reference to the words of any language!   In short, I selected the 
non-alphanumeric symbols on the keyboard of a standard computer (there's 
about thirty of them), and set about appointing suitable symbols to the 
various syntactic elements.
   EG "The cat ate the canary."   might have been shown,   . / 
.    (thing-action-thing)
         "The cat sat on the mat."         . / 
`.      (thing-action-preposition-thing)
         "The cat sat on the mat, and ate the canary."   . / `.  &/ 
.     (& - conjunction)

      In trying to cover all bases, I had to call on a few alphabetic 
symbols; and, I used different numbers of spaces to indicate junctions 
between phrases, clauses and sentences.
      What was a real hoot was the fact that my amazing innovation was 
completely ignored by everyone.  If a language that had 'Syntax-based 
Grammar' was to be taught worldwide, then perhaps there was a need to 
demonstrate, and teach, syntactically-correct usage; and, logically, there 
could be a case for developing a set of suitable, non-verbal symbols to 
demonstrate the use of this 'natural syntax.'
       Well, either I am mad, or the rest of the world is mad.  Having put 
twenty years of serious work into promoting Glosa, I have come to the 
conclusion that the concepts on which Glosa is based are ahead of their 
time... and that things might be more amenable next time around.  Having 
observed the unsustainable use of resources, a generally blatant disrespect 
for the laws of nature, and the racially suicidal use of materials such as 
Depleted Uranium, I reserve my opinion on the sanity of the human 
race.  What hope is there for Glosa, the Graffiti font, syntax symbols, or 
any other promising idea, in a world that appears to be intent on 
self-destruction?

       Actually, If I am concerned about the use of an International 
Auxiliary Language, I ought to - as my brother insists - get with the 
obvious winner, and learn, and promote, Esperanto.  The fact that Esperanto 
affixes do not suit the way my brain works is one reason for not taking my 
brother's advice; however, there do really seem to be more urgent problems 
to solve within the human experience, than that of the adoption of a 
universal tongue.

       Mi spe ke homi habe triumfa supra an natura te destru; ko-co, an 
nece gene holo un auxi an pote cepti.

      [I hope that Mankind triumphs over his destructive nature; (but) with 
that, he needs all the help he can get.]

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell 


