---
authorName: Stephan Schneider
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Stephan Schneider&quot; &lt;sts@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDBjMmMwMWM1NjljYiRlZjliNTgyMCRkMDRmZmVhOUBhY2VycHpkdjJhbWVsej4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDBhNjIwMWM1NjJmMCRlMGE2YWQ2MCRkMDRmZmVhOUBhY2VycHpkdjJhbWVsej4gPDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDUzMDIxMjYyMy4wMmE2ZDE2MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
layout: email
msgId: 530
msgSnippet: Karo Robin, Thanks a lot for your help. I think I understood much better
  the inner idea of glossa. Glosa is a really interesting language. The first time
  I
nextInTime: 531
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1117900858'
prevInTime: 529
prevInTopic: 529
profile: stefichjo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: GLl80ifdS5aQsMrSfN_26pA4w8qOT-95gN6pOdYiRFJpAiZ1AtkEahExtaGcwjyEx99nSouJYXazgLG_lkp6TCCh4ECjga7eMLEikYO9JkFeTw4xrHs
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] plu, stress'
topicId: 527
userId: 86512570
---

Karo Robin,
Thanks a lot for your help. I think I understood much better the inner idea of glossa.
Glosa is a really interesting language. The first time I started studing it, I didn't like it very much. The second time, though, it reminded me of what I expected Esperanto to be when I learned it seven years ago. (So, I'm kind of living in the 'weird world of language' for quite a long time.)
Thank you once again,
Stefo / Stephan

  ----- Original Message ----- 
  From: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell 
  To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com 
  Sent: Monday, May 30, 2005 3:30 PM
  Subject: Re: [glosalist] plu, stress


  At 05:18 AM 5/28/05, you wrote:
  >Hello,
  >Mi gene sko de Glosa, but I have already encountered difficulties / questions:
  >"plu" seems to mean both "the" (plural), "the" (cathegory) and "the" (group).
  >
  >I like singers
  >I like the singers
  >I like the choir
  >
  >plu kanta-pe
  >
  >Btw, is the stress in "kanta-pe" on the first or the second "a"?
  >
  >Gratia,
  >Stefo
  Karo Stefo,
      Glosa is a suitable language for International Auxiliary use, however I 
  can see your dilemma.
      While any language ought to be usable for folksy conversation, I'm 
  sorry to say that Glosa is primarily designed for use as an interlingua of 
  last resort when people have to communicate, but have no common medium for 
  spoken communication.  This is not an apology: I try to set the scene for 
  thinking in international.
      Although it seems unimaginable that people will possibly one day want 
  to communicate across the language barrier,  it could follow some sort of 
  social breakdown: Glosa could be used as a stop-gap medium, and spoken, or 
  written, almost directly from the dictionary ... using basic syntax.

     So, Glosa can also be used as a "tourist" tongue, but it might take a 
  little more effort than simply using polite, phrase-book 
  communication.  All this is to say that Glosa is a language designed for 
  basic communication: it avoids the use of metaphor, and does not work with 
  national language idiom.  The hardest part of learning to use Glosa is 
  putting the mind into 'low gear' to think in basic concepts, and 
  accordingly use the appropriate word, rather than an approximate close fit.

     But I also like music, and think singing is great.

     Mi amo kanta.      -     I like [to sing/singing]
         .....   u kanta.   -       ....  [the song/the singing]   NB 'U' 
  acts as a Noun marker, or the 'flag' to indicate a Noun Phrase.

         .....   plu kanta.  -     .... the songs   ( definitely in the 
  region of plurality, here )

     Mi amo u kanta-pe.  -   I like the singer.   (music appreciation, or 
  preference for the person)

      ......     plu kanta-pe.  -  I like [the (particular) singers/ singers 
  (in general)]  ... <plural>

     Mi hedo audi kanta-pe.  -   I enjoy [to hear/hearing/listening to] 
  singers   ... <' plu ' elided>
                                        --- This is a general statement, and 
  implies all singers.
     Mi hedo audi plu kanta-pe.   -   I enjoy [hearing/listening to] (the) 
  singers   ... softer, and unambiguous

     Mi amo u kanta-ra.  -  I like the [song-thing/song]
       ......    kanta-ra.   -    I like (the) song       < a bit bare: 
  ?general or particular?>

  Choir.
      A choir is a group of singers.
      In Glosa a choir can be defined as   u kanta-pe-grega    -    a 
  song-person group
      But it could be spelled out as    u grega de kanta-pe    -   a group of 
  song-person(s)
           the 'PLU' can be elided; adding it would be un-necessary and 
  possibly pedantic.

      Mi hedo kanta ko u kanta-grega.   -    I enjoy singing with the 
  choir.    Common sense tells us that the one would be singing with a group 
  of other people.   The rule is: use as many words as are needed for 
  communication to be unambiguous.

     While I have been criticised for repeating Ron Clark's phrase "concept 
  words" to describe Glosa's lexical items, it still makes sense to me.
     Folksy national languages and folksy auxiliary languages, like 
  Esperanto, have a warm human feel about them, and have comfy usage.  Glosa, 
  on the other hand, can be seen as a bit 'skeletal': the bones of language 
  are showing through.

    - - - - - - -
  Stress.
      Each Glosa word (and most are fairly short) has stress on the final 
  syllable.
      Glosa does not have inflections that change the word - or a series of 
  affixes that lengthen the word, and extend the meaning: it has particles 
  which can be words in their own right, but which can be attached by hyphen 
  to substantive words to change the category of meaning.

      Each word is pronounced with its own stressed final syllable.  [Hyphens 
  are not sounded, as such, but their presence is heard - in the stress given 
  to each element of a compound word.]
      An es u kanta-pe.   -  He is a singer.     Pron. kanta-pe  =  kAHntAH pAY

      eg.  pani-bo-pe    -   bread shop person  OR baker   Pron. 
  pani-bo-pe  =  pAHnEE bOR pAY

     While speakers of English become used to the normal shortcuts in the 
  language, and like its idiomatic and metaphorical usages, Glosa does not 
  work this way.
      There is a reasonably precise way of using Glosa, and, while compound 
  terms can be created using added particles - to give added meaning, there 
  is also the possibility of developing eliptic forms by dropping out words 
  that would be used for precision, but whose absence, in pedestrian 
  language, would cause no ambiguity.
      eg.  Fe ki a fe domi.   -  She goes to her home.
             Fe ki domi.    -   She goes (to) home.      NB.  'KI' is not 
  transitive
                                           'to go' a home is a nonsense.
             But, in English, this elided form is used all the time, and it 
  can be used in Glosa, also - where precision is not necessary.
             It is my feeling that when learning Glosa, it is best to use the 
  precise form of a sentence, and good syntax should be used.    Because the 
  thing that holds Glosa together is its syntax (word order), then correct 
  syntax is required, and the use of punctuation to indicate the phrasal and 
  clausal structure is a part of that syntax.  This situation is described 
  most easily by saying that Glosa has Syntax-based Grammar.

      Welcome to the weird world of language.

  Saluta,

  Robin Gaskell



  [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]



------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Yahoo! Groups Links

    a.. To visit your group on the web, go to:
    http://groups.yahoo.com/group/glosalist/
      
    b.. To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
    glosalist-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com
      
    c.. Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service. 



[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


