---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQyRDUwMDEyLjMwNjA3MDFATUFHUk9VUC5SVT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDcxNTAxNDIyNC4wNDI0NDUwMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PEUxRHJSMmotMDAwNnNwLTAwLm4xOTU0LW1haWwtcnVAZjIxLm1haWwucnU+IDw0MkQyMjlFOS42MDkwNDA3QE1BR1JPVVAuUlU+IDwyMDA1MDcxMTEyMjAxNi5HQTMwOTQzQHZpY2VydmV6YT4gPDA1ZTgwMWM1ODY2MyRjYTFmNzI3MCRkMDRmZmVhOUBhY2VycHpkdjJhbWVsej4gPDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDcxMzE2NTAyOS4wMmFiNjFjMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4gPDQyRDUwMDEyLjMwNjA3MDFATUFHUk9VUC5SVT4=
layout: email
msgId: 550
msgSnippet: '... *** Nothing strange about Glosa s English-like grammar. Ron Clark
  with an encyclopedic knowledge of language decided that the home team won on points,
  when'
nextInTime: 551
nextInTopic: 551
numMessagesInTopic: 27
postDate: '1121365238'
prevInTime: 549
prevInTopic: 548
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 7ayN1JUk757iT9Owo7m3GBAZFzyEIHaWpZRPV8WOF0RZj0wV5R--oFdVLY5AuQcdQYgnSru2SUXtKZllXJY1Ta6idSzUYpwLNbrJHdx16hlRgkstgGC6oJoVeAIcQfe2
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Sound &quot;U&quot; in Glosa'
topicId: 533
userId: 147970330
---

At 09:50 PM 7/13/05, you wrote:
>Except of flame, the only significicant th=
ought in that esperanto-thread 
>is that Llu=EDs offers to create an altern=
ative Glosa-branch 'cause of the 
>neat idea of the language and its strang=
e realization. The words "strange 
>realization" almost concern the English=
-like grammar of Glosa.
*** Nothing strange about Glosa's English-like gram=
mar.
      Ron Clark with an encyclopedic knowledge of language decided tha=
t the 
home team won on points, when it came to logical syntax.  So, Glosa =
does 
not have English as its main guide to grammar ... because the authors=
 are 
English.  Glosa was designed to be a language with minimal grammatica=
l 
morphology: it followed the minimal inflections of English to end up wit=
h 
virtually NO inflections; thus it can be seen as having a structure, whi=
ch 
is a streamlined, standardised version of that of English.
      The cl=
ausal/phrasal structure of English is considered to be both 
simple and log=
ical; also, English has a reasonably well formed syntactic 
foundation.  Th=
e odd thing is that this syntax is not codified as pure 
syntax; instead; t=
he word order of English is described in the complex 
terminology of gramma=
r.

      Ron Clark hated grammatical complexity so much that he created a =

language with no noticeable morphological grammar; and, worse than that, h=
e 
refused to write a grammar book for Glosa claiming that a person with 
a=
verage intelligence will intuit its fundamental syntax.

      Sadly, most =
adults have lost their childhood flexibility, and need to 
be told the "rul=
es" of a new language, while, of course, they were NEVER 
told the rules of=
 the language they learnt at mother's knee.  Ron made a 
big mistake in ass=
uming that people retained the creativity they had when 
toddlers.

     I =
did, belatedly, acknowledge that a Glosa Grammar must be written, 
so, I cr=
eated one 'after the fact.'  I looked at written Glosa, deduced the 
syntac=
tical relationships, and recorded them.  A Glosa Grammar does exist 
somewh=
ere in the Internet.
     Ron said that "A word is modified by its preceden=
t," and he thought 
that such wisdom would flow to everyone's understanding=
 of how his language 
worked.  Basically, within a phrase, the less signifi=
cant words are at the 
start, the modifiers (etc) are added in logical orde=
r, and then the phrase 
ends with its most significant word.  The phrase bu=
ilds up, with each new 
word adding to the meaning, progressively.
     Tec=
hnically, Linguists describe this as "head final" structure.  It 
works bot=
h for NOUN PHRASES and VERB PHRASES in Glosa.  The catch: in 
Glosa, a word=
 represents a concept, and, within reason, a word can be used 
as any 'part=
 of speech.'  So, for descriptive purposes, in Glosa, a word - 
according t=
o its position in the sentence - can be a 'noun' =3D a word 
functioning as=
 a noun, or a 'verb' =3D a word functioning as a verb.  The 
word "modifier=
" covers adjectives and adverbs, with modifiers in NOUN 
PHRASES doing what=
 adjectives do in English, and those in VERB PHRASES 
doing what English-la=
nguage adverbs do.
   ~ridi~ =3D 'laugh'   to laugh - ridi ;  do laugh - ak=
ti ridi ; he laughed 
- an pa ridi ;
                           give a laug=
h - don u ridi ;  the laughing man - 
u ridi andro ;
                      =
     she told it laughingly - fe ridi dice id

     Also in the Net there a=
re Seminar #1 and Seminar #2, giving more 
detail on this.

     Logically,=
 if a language has "Syntax-based Grammar," then a set of 
guides to good sy=
ntax (not to good grammar) should be available to 
learners.  I did produce=
 a set of non-verbal symbols to reduce language to 
a somewhat algebraic fo=
rmula --- to analyse the syntax without getting 
caught up with the words -=
-- but this concept was not in the ordinary 
Grammar Books, so it was compl=
etely ignored.  Anyone with a strange mind 
can find it on the Net as GAS (=
Gaskell Analysed Syntax).

>Suprisingly, during last several days at
>http:=
//www.e-novosti.info/forumo (it's the russian forum about
>Esperanto) they =
debate on Glosa's grammar defects.
*** It is a shame I don't read Russian: =
this would be interesting.

>This is my question:
>     *is Glosa an open p=
roject and is it possible to modify it's grammar
>if there will be concrete=
 suggestions?*
*** Basically NO!  However, Ron Clark died with his gift to =
the world still 
a work in progress.
      When you push something to an ex=
treme, Glosa is possibly the only 
"civilised" language completely without =
inflections, then its a bit hard to 
compromise and have just a little bit =
of inflection.
      On the other hand, Glosa could be augmented with one o=
r two more 
categories of affixes, which modify the MEANING of a word [not =
alter its 
grammar].  At present we have the two-letter affixes, which chan=
ge the 
category of a word; there probably is ample space for a list of fou=
r-letter 
affixes to modify meaning at a higher level.
EG  pani =3D bread
 =
       pani-bo  -  baker's shop  (bread shop)
        pani-bo-pe  -  baker =
(bread shop person)

      Meanwhile a person can tinker with Glosa and re-=
make it in his own 
image, but I suspect that Ron is a hard act to follow. =
 Presently Glosa 
does not appear to be going anywhere, and the idea of fin=
ding a language 
that is easy for the vast majority of mankind to speak see=
ms an altruistic 
one, which is quite off the radar of Economic Rationalism=
.  On a scale of 
one to a hundred, of problems in urgent need of solution,=
 Glosa, and the 
whole International Auxilliary Language story, rates about=
 a one, while 
Depleted Uranium scores a ninety-nine.  When, or if, peace e=
ver descends on 
the land, it will be time for me to dust off the Glosa boo=
ks, and resume 
where I left off.

     In pure linguistic theory, however,=
 there are still a few things to say:

     In its strict form, Glosa appea=
rs to be an ideal Meta-language; its 
syntax and 'no-nonsense' grammar make=
 it very suitable for communication 
with intelligent machines.

     There=
 is the continuing niggle about the possibility of there being a 
"Universa=
l Grammar".
Chomsky's writing is so dense that a UG might be in his books; =
but, reading 
through his impenetrable prose to find it is virtually imposs=
ible.  I have 
learnt from Chomsky, and have dedicated myself to writing ve=
ry clear prose, 
so that if there is a glimmer of truth within my writing, =
then it will be 
accessible to those who try to find it.
     The UG will b=
e found when we come to terms with the syntactical 
elements of language: I=
 believe that, of all of the Planned Languages, 
Glosa is the one that come=
s closest to revealing the nature of a Universal 
Grammar -- if one exists.=


     And even more heretically, I imagine that there really is a "languag=
e 
of thought."  It might be close to the concept of a UG; it could be a 
p=
icture language; or it might even be an articulation of concepts.  Come to =

think about it, Glosa is concept-based.  Hmm!

      In a stand up fight, =
however, everyone know Esperanto wins: it's got 
the books, the academy, an=
d the armies of speakers.  And it's got the 
organisation.  Glosa has none =
of this: no contest!

      There are just one or two matters.  Some people=
 simply can't stand 
all of Esperanto's inflected endings.  For those who l=
ove its old-world 
feel, and have the capacity to juggle the possibly multi=
ple affixes, 
Esperanto is fantastic.  Something at the other end of the li=
nguistic 
spectrum, might, on the other hand, suit the mental gearing of a =
larger 
fraction of the world's people.  We may never know.

>PS The Glosa =
community isn't sufficiently open. At least publish any
>information about =
it at http://www.UniLang.org <http://www.unilang.org>!
*** I became inactiv=
e linguistically before UniLang developed.  This 
explains my not knowing a=
bout it until now.  I am training for my 
retirement job; when this is all =
sorted out, I'll have time to spare to 
tell the world about Glosa via UniL=
ang.  Thanks for this idea.



>PPS The link to the Glosa-thread (for russi=
an-speakers only)
>http://www.e-novosti.info/forumo/viewtopic.php?t=3D1885&=
postdays=3D0&postorder=3Dasc&start=3D0 
>
><http://www.e-novosti.info/forum=
o/viewtopic.php?t=3D1885&postdays=3D0&postorder=3Dasc&start=3D0>
*** Also a=
 nice idea.
      I did have an idea once for teaching Glosa using Glosa!  =
this would 
be quite a challenge, but highly possible.  This has overtones =
similar to 
those of the "immersion teaching" of a foreign language.  But..=
. there is 
no Glosalandia, so I'll have to improvise.

>//pardon me engles=
e mans//
*** Certainly.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell


>Robin Fairbridge Gaskell=
 wrote:
>
> >Dear All plus a few Glosa-pe,
> >    I do not want to appear r=
ude, but I don't actually read Esperanto.
> >
> >    While Glosa is now ver=
y much a minority language, and there is very
> >little written in Glosa on=
 this list, I would suggest that items might be
> >in either Glosa or Engli=
sh, or both.
> >
> >    If a Glosa-pe wishes to use his, or her, planned la=
nguage skills, I
> >might hope that they did so using Glosa.
> >
> >    Whi=
le Esperanto speakers are very welcome on this list, and perhaps
> >might l=
earn something of the Glosa philosophy while here, it would be nice
> >if i=
tems in Esperanto were accompanied by a translation into either English
> >=
or Glosa.
> >
> >    For some Esperanto visitors, this will not be possible=
, I
> >know.  However I suggest that the Esperanto only items might not be =
read by
> >the Glosa-pe.
> >
> >Glosa:  Pro vario de plu Esperanto-dice vis=
ita-pe, mi ski ke u-ci akti ne
> >es posi.  Anti-co, mi sugere ke plu itema=
; uti solo Esperanto, sio posi ne
> >gene lekto per plu Glosa-pe.
> >
> >Sa=
luta,
> >
> >Robin Gaskell
> >
>--
>
>   Then the mind stuff, reflecting bo=
th the knower and the knowable, becomes
>   omniscient. 184
>
>
>
>
>
>
>Ya=
hoo! Groups Links
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>__________ NOD32 1.1168 (20050714) Informa=
tion __________
>
>This message was checked by NOD32 antivirus system.
>htt=
p://www.eset.com


