---
authorName: sydpidd@aol.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: sydpidd@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGQ5LjI5ZWNjNDRjLjMwMGQ2MjZjQGFvbC5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 555
msgSnippet: Tomorrow s Heirlooms Susan had always disliked the peacock. english/glosa
  bridge:- susan dd always no liking th peacock . susana pa pan-tem no amo u pavo
  .
nextInTime: 556
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1121716332'
prevInTime: 554
prevInTopic: 0
profile: sydpidd1926
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Tz7N231dz-aLxQDIlvSKYIsZpejaAijEI6w6iOdKLwxRQdf8sD5cqMpwx-lHW3oPSyTQuLB5
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] susana and the peacock'
topicId: 555
userId: 137587403
---

"Tomorrow's Heirlooms"

"Susan had always disliked the peacock."
english/glosa bridge:- susan dd always no liking th peacock . 
 susana pa pan-tem no amo u pavo . 

I think that it would be easier to speak a sentence in glosa when its words 
begin with a consonant and end with a vowel so "susan" becomes "susana" 
pavo-> pavo cristatus.here science has used its own ial, pavo cristatus means 
the same in any language .
this glosa will avoid capital letters. many languages have no capitals so 
this ial might perhaps be more universal without them.

in this version of glosa, the verb phrase will almost always begin with an 
introducing word such as "pa", "fu", "du" or "sio". these words usually also 
indicate time - "pa" indicates the past.

the noun phrase will usually begin with an introducing word such as "u" or 
"plu". these words also tell the number, "u" is one/singular. the object section 
has the noun phrase "u parvo". sometimes a noun phrase is the name of someone 
and may have no intro word:- "susana" . this word will not be in a general 
dictionary. 

more traditional glose-pe would prefer to have capitals, glosa seems to have 
no rules to help placing them so i shall  put one at the beginning of a 
sentence and at the beginning of a word such as a name and that is not found in a 
general dictionary'
"Susana pa pan-tem no amo u pavo"


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


