---
authorName: "Manuel Pav\xF3n Valderrama"
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: =?ISO-8859-1?Q?Manuel_Pav=F3n_Valderrama?= &lt;cp46tan@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQ1MjE5ZmIwMDUwNzE0MjMwNDEyMzQxMmU3QG1haWwuZ21haWwuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQyREMxRTYyLjEwMTA5MDJAaG90cG9wLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: 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
layout: email
msgId: 557
msgSnippet: '... In general, I very much agree on your remarks about the english language
  and about the problems on learning it. It starts being very easy, but ends being
  a'
nextInTime: 558
nextInTopic: 558
numMessagesInTopic: 27
postDate: '1121721954'
prevInTime: 556
prevInTopic: 556
profile: cp46tan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: IuExQcGpMe8b75mRzJhnbkdCivntzQ1SH4nZ9Od5tZI87TE4AzaJnDwbZf-yKUHQAjhrI80m4DsE0sHR2VhREN_wl9r97FamN4Wdr23lcIcYkCg8hKMdnJ6f3aqDONAoD7g9d7qM
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Sound &quot;U&quot; in Glosa'
topicId: 533
userId: 65375870
---

Llu=EDs Batlle pa grafo:

> I'm not English native, sure.... and I can tell=
 you that I consider
> English a 'Troya's horse'. I'm tired hearing people =
talking about its
> easyness! I consider that first steps into a language d=
epends mostly
> on morphology, and a few vocabulary. Sure, English has very=
 little
> morphology (compared to Russian, or any latin language, for examp=
le),
> and there _might_ be few vocabulary (many mixing of words, as in
> p=
hrasal verbs). Also, many meanings come from metaphoric things. For
> examp=
le, you already exemplified by "give a laught". _BUT_ I found
> English syn=
tax really really complex. In fact, I know even no rules
> for its syntax. =
People always teached to me English "as-is", by
> examples. Maybe I know so=
me rules for very small sentences: "My house
> is near", "I go to school", =
... even adding some prepositions. But
> when mixing a bigger amount of phr=
ases, the result is always
> unpredictable to me. I mean, I never know how =
good I write a good
> sentence. I sure don't think that English syntax (t.i=
. the order of
> words, the function of each word in a sentence) is easy.

=
In general, I very much agree on your remarks about the english language an=
d 
about the problems on learning it. It starts being very easy, but ends b=
eing a 
nightmare. Well, sort of, maybe I'm exaggerating quite a bit.

> So=
, people who learn English (and to me agree Russian people, Spanish,
> Cata=
lan (i.e. I could say people who speak latinic languages), and
> Chinese) f=
ind a great unaffordable step when they come into "complex
> sentences" of =
the English language. This gets shown when reading
> English literature, an=
d not scientific texts or similar. Those
> scientific texts are quite easy =
to understand, specially if foreigners
> write them (IMO).
> 
> Sure, I thi=
nk that the way of teaching "no rules - learn by examples
> because of its =
easyness" is an example of the complexity. If it's that
> easy, that logica=
l, please write the syntax rules. It's nosense to me
> telling that: "it's =
much logical, you even don't need rules to
> understand that". To me that b=
ecomes: "it's that ilogical, that we
> even cannot write rules".

Well, thi=
s is not exactly the case in glosa. I think that the rules are pretty 
easy=
, as Robin explained in other message. You can consider these rules as a 
s=
mall subset of the rules of english. The (current) rules also compel the 
l=
earner to speak in a way as simple as possible, and I think that this is a =
good 
point about Glosa.

But I also think that the Glosa rules/grammar are=
 not so close as they seem. 
There is still a lot of room for small changes=
 and improvements, but for them to 
happen we must speak as much Glosa as p=
ossible. Of course there are still some 
things that need to be changed, bu=
t they are just details. On the remark that 
seems that Glosa has no rules,=
 it is plain false. What happens is just that 
since only very few people c=
ommunicate in Glosa, it does not seem to have a 
definite form, which is so=
rt of true. Some parts of the language will be in a 
kind of void state unt=
il speakers start to interact which each other and a 
common expression app=
ears for those currently void parts. Anyway, most of the 
complains about t=
he lack of a Glosa grammar come from people who would like to 
have a stand=
arized and canonical description of the language, which is neither 
avaible=
 at the moment, neither possible for some language details, as I 
explained=
 some sentences before.

> Therefore, IMO, the English syntax (and by exten=
sion, the Glosa
> syntax) is the most complex I've never found when learnin=
g languages.
> And by that, it has no clear rules, and their speakers even =
"fieras"
> about that.

Hey! Glosa syntax is really easy. It's just (i) the=
 modifiers go first (ii) 
Subject-Verb-Object order (iii) Use the "-co" stu=
ff for most subordinate 
sentences, or just attach them "as-is" for other c=
ases (like "I think (that), I 
believe (that), I say (that), etc") (iv) Som=
e other minor stuff for relative 
sentences (v) when the previous rules do =
not apply, try to reexpress in a 
simpler way. And of course (vi) try to us=
e too as easy words as possible.

So pleasy, try to understand that English=
 syntax is not Glosa Syntax, although 
in the simple cases it may seem so.
=

Regards,
Manolo.


