---
authorName: sydpidd@aol.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: sydpidd@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDFkOC40MTdmOGNmNC4zMDE2ODhlNEBhb2wuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 563
msgSnippet: u susana pa pan-tem ne-amo u pavo u intro  a noun phrase and tells that
  the head noun is singular, it also tells that the previous phrase has ended. If
  the
nextInTime: 564
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1122316004'
prevInTime: 562
prevInTopic: 0
profile: sydpidd1926
replyTo: LIST
senderId: B-zF4jj9WmHme41UL9Zc466K4Y9lP6sbNWkpaFRGKvOFNt_dBBzFwe-xsAHiEcOQkzaL_7yQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] susana and the peacock 2'
topicId: 563
userId: 137587403
---

u susana pa pan-tem ne-amo u pavo

"u" intro  a noun phrase and tells that the head noun is singular, it also 
tells that the previous phrase has ended. If the noun phrase is before the verb 
phrase,  This noun phrase is the subject of the sentence. If it is after, it 
is or is part of the object section.
"pa" signals the start of the verb phrase and that it is in th past. Normally 
the last word in the phrase is the head/chief word, any words between th 
intro word and head one are modifiers/help/describers :- "pa"=intro, 
"ne-amo"=head, "pan-tem"=modifier(adverb here)

"When,as a small child, she was sent to fetch something from the 
sitting-roon, she would open the door slowly, peering fearfully at the hearth".
Here's trouble! This could be extremely difficult to put into glosa! I shall 
have to make some drastic alterations.
First, "susan was a small child." -> 
(noun intro singular) susan (verb intro past) is (noun intro sing) small 
child.
I have a useful computer but a bad memory - I also have a program and 
dictionary. so i rewrite th sentence :- "th susan dd is th small child" and run the 
computer program to get :-
"u susana pa es u pusi infanta."

"noun intro sing" is shortened to "th" (a or the), "verb intro past" to "dd" 
(did)
Next, I write :- "th person dd send th susan to th sitting-room . "
 "u  persona pa bali u susana a u sedi-kamera . "
"she wd (would) slow open th door"
 "fe sio lento aperi u  porta . "
"she" is a pronoun and is also a complete noun phrase, intro word is not 
needed and there are no modifiers

"she dd peering at th fire-place . "
"peer" could mean "stare" or  "lord" etc
 "fe pa stare a u piro-lo . "

more to follow .... 


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


