---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQyRkVEQUY3LjAwMDAzRi4wMTk5NkB2LTZ6bW52cnBxdzJjYnk+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDgxNTIyMDYzNS4wMmIzMmNjMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDQyRkVEQUY3LjAwMDAzRi4wMTk5NkB2LTZ6bW52cnBxdzJjYnk+
layout: email
msgId: 567
msgSnippet: Saluta Nikhil e plu hetero lingua-pe, ... Well, I guess I understand the
  difficulty you might have been having with Glosa. Were I immortal, I d spend some
  of
nextInTime: 568
nextInTopic: 568
numMessagesInTopic: 10
postDate: '1124118334'
prevInTime: 566
prevInTopic: 566
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: v1i9skIgVSttySxmjnYSUPRTp0E6RuPnIdXLUae2pUaFxzp2rpvZoNmY0BRZZasFI_H6NIaJ2HPYHaM8nUzyNiD-HzG_CpGhS-lfYDjC1wqztEsyzsTZhUqj7n_g0JD8
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Hello all!'
topicId: 566
userId: 147970330
---

Saluta Nikhil e plu hetero lingua-pe,

At 03:47 PM 8/14/05, you wrote:
>Hi
>
>I am Nikhil Sinha from India. I just joined the Glosa mailing list. I came
>to know about Glosa last year. I got interested in the language, but I have
>not yet been able to learn the language!
>
>Nikhil Sinha
>
>nikhilsinha_in@...
>
>www.geocities.com/nikhilsinha_in
>
>"Lukw Aazgaenae - aamos vurda-aan-Kaunlaanga jaenamaenta. Vizitw 
>www.geocities.com/nikhilsinha_in/azgen.htm non far moaapro taelaamaente 
>itae aan Daaunlodw ita diden!"
Well, I guess I understand the difficulty you might have been having with 
Glosa.

Were I immortal, I'd spend some of my endless time inventing fun languages 
for my own amusement ... too.

But I'm 69 and my time will be up one day soon enough.  So, I put it down 
that the twenty-five years I've spent in and around Glosa have been 
enough.  And after I die there will only be a few traces of what I have 
done with Glosa - lingering on the Internet: ghosts of what could have been.

Why is it hard to learn: it was an attempt to find the golden thread of 
commonality running through the major European national languages.  I 
suspect that there is some common denominator .. mainly from the 
Indo-European stem.

But Ron was bright, and he assumed too much of his fellow man.  He tried to 
avoid imposing a grammar upon Glosa's learners, expecting that intuition 
would take over -- and the innate nature of a natural syntactic pattern, 
which was hard-wired into our brains, would emerge.

Perhaps he expected too much creativity.  The 
Classical_vocab/Italian-sounding language that he created might yet be 
adopted as a standardised form of communication for science 
internationally.  Glosa is boringly logical, and devoid of colour, if you 
cut out the similes and metaphors as he advised.

What really makes Glosa difficult is not the syntax, which is virtually 
mechanical, but the precise vocabulary.  In saying something, you are 
supposed to call a spade "a spade" always.  However, people are lazy, and 
often deceptive, or even dishonest: our brains find it too tiresome to 
always use the correct word; and, often, using plain language is painfully 
revealing.  We have all developed the comfortable shorthand of saying 
something as briefly as possible (often using ellipsis), and usually with 
the nearest words that come to mind - there not being any need for exact 
accuracy.  What's more, there's more poetry in communication if we are 
artful in our use of words and in our turn of phrase.

In short, Nikhil, I did browse your website, and it is obvious that 
complexities of sound, grammar and script make language interesting for 
you.  Glosa was invented on a different tack: the aim was for simplicity of 
use, and for ease of learning.  Perhaps the human brain really does not 
seek the simplicity that Ron Clark thought he had found.  But one truism I 
did learn in my wanderings through the Linguistic wilderness, is that there 
are two types of people: one group is memory-based, and revels in the 
twists and turns of inflection; the other group is considerably less 
polyglot, and wishes for an easy path through communication.  Being less 
rule-based, members of this second group use less memory and more intuition 
in the way they speak.  The first group is epitomised by those who learn to 
like Esperanto; the second group might be drawn to Glosa, but would see 
Italian or Spanish as easy second languages, because although they are 
somewhat inflected, they are fairly regular.  English while only very 
slightly inflected, appears to lack pattern, and does carry the confusions 
of vocabulary and grammar from its numerous cultural infusions.  Glosa, 
restricted to only Roman &/or Greek vocabulary sources, and having a 
standardised (head final) syntactic structure is, in theory, easy to learn 
and use.

My favourite example of how Glosa differs from English is the sentence, 
"I'm going home." which translates - more or less correctly - into Glosa as 
~Mi ki a mi domi.~

Everyone who learns to speak English acknowledges the unwritten rule that 
there probably are a few words missing between "going" and "home," and that 
one really cannot "go" a "home."  However, if there is no hard and fast 
rule stating that the 'indirect object' always requires a preposition; and, 
if everyone understands what you mean, then ^near enough is good enough^.

If, of course, the continuous tense is required, then the above example 
would need the addition of an extra particle before the verb:-

                    G.         Mi ki a mi domi.                    Mi du ki 
a mi domi.
         glos.                I go to my house                    I 
continue to go to my house

                    E.          I go home.                            I am 
going home.

So, while I am still very interested in language and communication, and I 
believe that Glosa best embodies the innate syntax of the brain's 
linguistic function (related to Chomsky's Universal Grammar), I know that 
rule-based people have been taught language must follow set patterns, and 
they expect that all languages must have culturally imposed, detailed 
morphological grammars.  Thus, while Glosa appears to be obviously not 
rule-based, it is highly unsuitable for this large section of mankind, 
which has been educated to believe that all successful languages are highly 
inflected with ornate morphologies that parallel this.

There are a few spots around the Net with Glosa items on them, and Wendy 
Ashby would sell you Glosa instructional material - if you are 
interested.  Wendy is at
      P. O. Box 18, Richmond, Surrey TW9 2GE, England.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell 


