---
authorName: Nikhil Sinha
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Nikhil Sinha &lt;nikhilsinha_in@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQzMDZFODM4LjAwMDAyMy4wMjAzNkB2LTZ6bW52cnBxdzJjYnk+
headers.referencesHeader: PDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDgxOTE4Mjc1Ny4wMmZmM2RiMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
layout: email
msgId: 579
msgSnippet: 'Read on. (My reply after three asterix marks.) ... From: Robin Gaskell
  Date: Friday, August 19, 2005 4:37:26 PM To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com Subject:
  Re:'
nextInTime: 580
nextInTopic: 586
numMessagesInTopic: 10
postDate: '1124526136'
prevInTime: 578
prevInTopic: 576
profile: nikhilsinha_in
replyTo: LIST
senderId: dxIOgHX6KJ4sf1VgKzrPov_wl4RTHZDJSaWOgSdTY5Ucq3jtxYGdMQZoPSXVGV2-uTmHKy7PZnQ2-bqlL6j8b94qoR1mMpzGIxdkYnTCQXI
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Hello all!'
topicId: 566
userId: 143252771
---

Read on. (My reply after three asterix marks.)

-------Original Message-------



From: Robin Gaskell

Date: Friday, August 19, 2005 4:37:26 PM

To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com

Subject: Re: [glosalist] Hello all!



So, for this reason, Nik, I would raise this question with you ...

and anyone else who wishes to comment on it: have you had any thoughts

about syntax as a common denominator in language (and communication) and as

a principle suitable for basing an auxillary language on?



Without trying to be rude, I suspect that syntax is an area of

linguistic research that professional Linguists have rather avoided up to
now.



Saluta,



Robin



****

Well,

I didnt really understand what you were asking me about syntax of a language
 But here is what I know about syntax.

Inflecting and Agglutinating languages, like Esperanto do not need a syntax
or in more particular a word order. For example,

Mi trinkas teon.

Mi teon trinkas.

Teon trinkas mi.

Trinkas teon mi.

All the above mean the same, 'I drink tea' and not something like 'Tea
drinks me' or the like. This is due to the objective case -n (teo+n).

But when it comes to isolating languages, word order is 100% necessary as
that becomes the SOLE way to convey meaning. And since Glosa is isolating ,
this applies to Glosa as well.

However, there is a language spoken somewhere in or around Myanmar which is
isolating yet it has no syntax. And its speakers still manage to understand
each other. But this is the only exception and the reason the speakers
understand each other is that they have been using it since birth, which is
not the case for Glosa-pe.



Regards,

Nikhil





Nikhil Sinha

nikhilsinha_in@...

www.geocities.com/nikhilsinha_in

