---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDUxMDA0MTEwOTAzLjk1MjU3LnFtYWlsQHdlYjI2MzE1Lm1haWwudWtsLnlhaG9vLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA1MTAwOTE2NDE0Mi4wNTQyMzU2MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDIwMDUxMDA0MTEwOTAzLjk1MjU3LnFtYWlsQHdlYjI2MzE1Lm1haWwudWtsLnlhaG9vLmNvbT4=
layout: email
msgId: 592
msgSnippet: '... * So far so good.      **A nu fo boni. ... * The inflections, beloved
  of people who are good at languages, do not suit everybody.  Glosa has Syntax-based'
nextInTime: 593
nextInTopic: 593
numMessagesInTopic: 11
postDate: '1128850252'
prevInTime: 591
prevInTopic: 591
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: S8Hj-jpqCbDUqNtvMd8pU1cxI1zI3Bkxxw3GFAlkXeZbKIjTXIHmaTocquIcjNvsO1PyXC3i0fqcUc2f7iPpTvqPlBAvdvN-4--2JafS0Dz_N4P6FmWagn5NT67w1-5S
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] jhnavis@yahoo.co.uk'
topicId: 589
userId: 147970330
---

At 09:09 PM 10/4/05, John Avis pa grafo:
>Mi ne es glosa-pe, sed glosa inte=
rese mi.
>
>I write this as an outsider, but I think Glosa could
>have grea=
t potential.
* So far so good.      **A nu fo boni.

>Depending on its mean=
ing one word can serve as noun,
>adjective, verb,
>adverb and even a prepos=
ition - less words to learn.
>Fine !
* The inflections, beloved of people w=
ho are good 
at languages, do not suit everybody.  Glosa has 
"Syntax-based=
 Grammar" and thus the sequencing of 
the words gives the language its gram=
mar.  Less 
words and less inflections: fine!


>However, such a language d=
oes have its downside. It is
>very easy to write
>a sentence that is incomp=
rehensible to the reader.
>English can do that too,
>even for native speake=
rs !
*  Quite so.    A study of 'Good Syntax' seems necessary.
With clearly=
 thought-out syntax, the function of 
each word ought to be clear, and thus=
, the 
meaning of the whole sentence should, accordingly, also be meaningfu=
l.

    I have found most Glosa sentences easy to read, but
>some are more =
difficult to
>decipher than Classical Latin. I feel this must put
>people o=
ff the language.
* Usually because the writer has tried to be too 
economic=
al with words, and has over-used the few present.

>To show what I mean I a=
m using an example text from
>the Glosa website.
>
>-----------------------=
--------------------------------------------------------
>Glosa - puri komu=
nika
>(Ronald Clark & Wendy Ashby, =A9 GEO, 1996; from the
>newspaper "Plu =
Glosa Nota",
>ISSN 0265-6892, No. 75, January/February 1996; HTML by
>Paul =
O. Bartlett, 1996)
>
>Ex kron a kron uno civi fu protesta; "Sed Glosa feno
=
>kopi un English modela;
>sura id debi difere?"
>
>Panto Cina ami dice iso.=
 Glosa funktio iso Cina
>lingua.
>
*       G.   Panto Cina ami dice iso.
  =
     glos.  (all  China friend say as/the_same )
         E.    All Chinese=
 friends say the same.

         G.   Glosa funktio iso Cina lingua.
      =
 glos.  (Glosa function as/the_same China language )
         E.   Glosa wo=
rks the same as Chinese.

>------------------------------------------------=
-------------------------------
>
>In the above example the first sentence =
is fine. I
>could read this without having to
>consult a vocabulary. The wo=
rds "fu, feno, debi"
>indicate the verb cluster and the
>rest of the senten=
ce falls into place.
>
>Not so in the next two shorter sentences. I have no=

>idea where the verbal cluster begins.
>In the context I think the point i=
s being made that
>Glosa is similar to Chinese, but
>not being able to get =
the exact meaning of the
>sentences, leaves me in some doubt.
* Interesting=
: the idea of a 'VERB cluster' seems to have thrown you.
         The ~iso~=
 is more of a "verb auxilliary" 
than anything. In this sentence structure,=
 the 
~iso~ is 'helping' the VERB ~dice~, so acts as 
either a Modifier (=
=3Dadverb) or an Auxillary to 
the verb.   The whole VERB Clause (=3Dverb c=
luster) 
would be ~dice iso~.  This sentence uses the Intransitive form.

>=
In the first sentence, is the verbal cluster, 'dice',
>'dice iso', or perha=
ps even
>'ami dice iso'?
* Running a simple S-V-O test on this sentence, it=
 is:

                        S           -      V
             Panto Cina =
ami  -  dice iso.         ...OR

       Fancifully, with a three-word VERB =
Clause

                    S          -         V
              Panto Cina=
  -  ami dice iso.
             ( all  China      love say the-same)
[eithe=
r]  All China loves to say the same.
[or]       All China lovingly says the=
 same.

  I'd award these sentences a "*" suggesting that they did not go.
=


>Literally the sentence says:
>" all china friend say identical"
* It is =
a very handy trick to use the glos 
(direct word translation), either expli=
citly as I 
have done here, or in your head - like looking at 
your cards b=
efore working out the value of your 
hand.  NB The simple word-translation =
dictionary 
produced by the Glosa authors was all they could 
afford, but t=
o use it requires imagination.


>Assuming that 'dice' is the verb, are pan=
 cina ami
>agreeing with the criticism
>in the first sentence that Glosa is=
 too much like
>English, or are they saying
>that Glosa is like Chinese, wh=
ich the third sentence
>seems to say ?
* Yes, the reported speech is uttere=
d as a 
criticism.  The concluding sentence is an 
affirmation of the value=
 of Glosa's syntax.
      I have communicated with both groups, 
English-sp=
eakers who say Glosa is simply English 
'relexified', and Chinese-speakers =
who say they 
recognise in Glosa the same syntax as in their own language.
=

      Solution of conundrum:

     Well-written Glosa can usually be 
tran=
slitterated word for word into English.
BUT
     English does not translitt=
erate directly into Glosa.

     Explanation:

     Glosa demands the use o=
f correct syntax, 
otherwise its 'grammar' does not work!

     In English =
with its minimal bag of 
inflections, and through [sloppy] usage, we get 
a=
way with lingustic murder in our syntax.
     The brain recognises utteranc=
es in English 
as meaningful by seeing the patterns of usage and converting=
 them into meaning.
      In Glosa we have no body of usage to fall 
back o=
n, and we must observe the niceties of 
proper syntax, otherwise we talk Gl=
osa-Gobbledegook.
      Unfortunately Syntax has not been taught in 
school=
s; fortunately for me, however, I am old 
enough to have gone to school in =
Queensland when 
Parsing and Analysis was still being taught in Primary Sch=
ools.

      Personal belief:
      By imposing the need for good sentence =

structure on its speakers, Glosa ensures much 
less ambiguity [and deceit]=
 in in the usage of language.

      Glosa Rules:
     1. A word is modifie=
d by its preceding word.
     2. Glosa sentences use Subject-Verb-Object st=
ructure.
     3. Within phrases, 'head final" structure applies.

       Th=
is last rule says that the major word in 
a phrase is the last word of the =
phrase, and, for 
the other words, the least important starts the 
phrase, =
while subsequent words leading to the 
major word build up in significance.=
  This 
happens in English with Noun Phrases, e.g.

      the three large f=
at high-school boys    <try re-arranging the order>

>In the third sentence=
 I assume that the verb is either
>funktio, or iso, or both.
>I can, I thin=
k, get the meaning, but it would be nice
>to be sure.
* All language has so=
me fuzziness Glosa just does 
it differently.  But it is annoying all the s=
ame.

>In the above example it is a just bit annoying, but in
>a different =
context it could
>mean that a reader comes away with totally the wrong
>mea=
ning, and that is the sort
>of thing that would put people off Glosa.
* Yip=
, creatives like it, but the less imaginitive find it a bit off-putting.

>=
May I, as an outsider, suggest that perhaps a 'nu'
>could be slipped into s=
uch
>sentences to split off the subject cluster from the
>verbal cluster. T=
he easier it
>is to read, the more people may want to read it.
* Such an id=
ea has been put forward.  ~nu~ has an 
exact funtion: it puts things into t=
he immediate present.
   ~Mi vide an,~ has a different meaning from ~Mi nu =
vide an.~

    If you have this sort of trouble, you could 
use ^trainer wh=
eels^ at the start to help you recognise the VERB Phrase.

   e.g.    Plu t=
ri ju-an /fo hedo voko/ ko plu ridi ju-fe.

      The three boys very happi=
ly talked with the laughing girls.

   NB The "^" is such an invention to d=
enote the 
use of non-literal language. It is not supposed 
to be used in G=
losa, but this is a rule which I find unnecessarily restricting.

>I have a=
lso noticed that there are older versions of
>the vocabulary in existence,
=
>and it is not clear which one you should be using.
>This is surely not hel=
pful to anyone wishing to learn
>Glosa.
* Quite so, but the matter never re=
ally got sorted out.

>Sorry for the criticism, but it is meant to be
>cont=
ructive. *** I think the secret of
>Glosa is to write clearly and simply, e=
ven if it takes
>a few more words to do so, and
>that the writer should tak=
e care to ensure that the
>reader will easily be able to
>understand what h=
as been written.***
* I call it reading out loud what you have 
written and=
 seeing if what you hear reminds you of the meant to say.
   If the answer =
is 'NO', then recast the sentence.

>Good luck to pan glosa-pe ! I hope you=
 succeed.
>
>John Avis
* Thanks John.  In a sane world there is a place 
fo=
r Glosa... but we aint got one.

Robin Gaskell


[Non-text portions of this=
 message have been removed]


