---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDFiOC4xZDlmZDhlNi4zMDgwMTBjNUBhb2wuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA1MTAyMjIwNDMzOS4wMmViMTNkMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDFiOC4xZDlmZDhlNi4zMDgwMTBjNUBhb2wuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 603
msgSnippet: '... Karo Glosa-pe, The sequence Sid gives comprises two phrases:- ~u
  melani kani~      .....  A. ~ko plu longi auri~  .....   B. As far as I can see,
  they are'
nextInTime: 604
nextInTopic: 604
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1129982073'
prevInTime: 602
prevInTopic: 600
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: PThlAUYSxKKcV8AL0zZZDGD0xYy1Md8-AHmJBopsEdbLIHxYi-zptZraWhk0CG-RRc7sf3efISAbAoYrl8V0H33E6-N7twO7-AmAYLJjg1UAVvoIq2wVmeFollha1tZX
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] phrases'
topicId: 600
userId: 147970330
---

At 05:34 AM 10/14/05, sid pidd grafo:

>dear robin
>
>si in glosa u kefa verba es ultima in u frasu, que na habe "u melani ko plu
>longi auri kani" alo na loka plu "longi auri" po kefa? - "u melani 
>kani ko plu longi
>auri"
>
>if glosa is head last in a phrase, do we have "the black with long ears dog"
>or do we put the preposition phrase after the head word? "ths black dog with
>the long ears"
>syd
>
>(Glosa Rules:
>      1. A word is modified by its preceding word.
>      2. Glosa sentences use Subject-Verb-Object structure.
>      3. Within phrases, 'head final" structure applies.)

Karo Glosa-pe,
    The sequence Sid gives comprises two phrases:-

           ~u melani kani~      .....  A.
           ~ko plu longi auri~  .....   B.

     As far as I can see, they are not one long, complex phrase, with 
~kani~ as
its 'head', but are, indeed, two phrases.

     Phrase A. is the standard NOUN Phrase, which can be either the 
Subject or Object of a sentence.

     Phrase B., on the other hand, is dependent on Phrase A.

     Normally I would find B-class phrases as part of the general 
Object of a sentence.  To avoid confusion, Phrase A. would be called 
the Direct Object, and  Phrase B. would be an Indirect Object.
     Since Phrase B. describes the ~kani~ it is a sort of Adjectival 
Phrase: ~ko~  = ~qi habe~.  In Glosa the ~qi~ can be elided, with a 
";" (Ajectival-clause-flag) sufficing.

     Agreed, Phrases A. & B. could be part of a complex Subject, and 
this might cause trouble for our grammatical descriptions.  However, 
I am inclined to play the ```English Usage``` card.  Maybe the 
English language "with" is is an idiomatic usage that does not 
necessarily have to be imposed on Glosa translations.

      I suspect that the 'Adjectival Phrase' understanding better 
covers this additional piece of descriptive information, and is a 
purer syntactic explanation of what is occuring.  I suspect that 
using ~ko~ in such situations is more a borrowing from English usage 
than a correct translation into properly syntactic Glosa.

   EG   ~U melani kani ko plu longi auri pa casa u mega-metro bola.~

       (Eng. A black dog with long ear(s) chased a large (sized) ball. )

          ~U melani kani; qi habe plu longi auri, pa casa u mega-metro bola.~

  Elided:  ~U melani kani; habe plu longi auri, pa casa u mega-metro bola.~

     This is the case for rendering the "long-eared" information as a 
separate clause, not as some sort of Indirect Object or Indirect Subject.

     However, adding the information as a compound adjective, we 
would place it before the word ~kani~.

   EG  ~U melani, longi-auri kani pa casa u mega-metro bola.~

      (Eng.  The black, long-eared dog chased a/the large ball. )

In Glosa, where syntax rules, I think we should ask, 'How would a 
syntactically aware person express the idea?'

Saluta,
Robin Gaskell 

[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


