---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDAwMTEwMWM1ZjdjOSQxZjE5ZDE0MCQzMjgyNzYzZUBhMGgzcjc+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA1MTIwODAwNDQ1NC4wMmI4YjMxMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDI3ZC4xMTQ5OTAyLjMwYzFjNjc5QGFvbC5jb20+IDwwMDExMDFjNWY3YzkkMWYxOWQxNDAkMzI4Mjc2M2VAYTBoM3I3Pg==
layout: email
msgId: 613
msgSnippet: '... Saluta Plu Glosa-pe, It could be done, and might be beneficial. But
  an English with Syntax-based Grammar would be a very specialised usage of the'
nextInTime: 614
nextInTopic: 616
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1133966072'
prevInTime: 612
prevInTopic: 611
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: zzoQcxNmcPGKPBHYDq-L3Kkfo2PBbCysxSTwQLye0jbVJ-W-iRGRM4HMVwyE7WUZfe3J3knI01sKc5k4z3bQHkN7zeSiQ3_LDCFPSov8zw6M_0oBNlSV4jtECsUBPh45
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] glosa + english ?'
topicId: 611
userId: 147970330
---

At 04:19 PM 12/3/05, you wrote:
>What will we have, if we use a gram. of Glosa with english words?
>Let's make a try
>
>Nikolao

Saluta Plu Glosa-pe,
    It could be done, and might be beneficial.
    But an "English" with Syntax-based Grammar would be a very 
specialised usage of the lexicon.

    If we wanted a fool-proof English-type language that could be 
used between automatons, but which was also understandable to 
flesh-and-blood humans, also, then there would be a value in it.

    Such a language which was strictly syntax-driven would have to be 
devoid of 'non-literal language' such as metaphor and idiom - as Ron 
Clark specified originally for Glosa!  We could get around this 
straight-jacket by using metaphor as "slang" possibly either using 
italics or bold or even ^some symbol^ as a flag  to signal the 
non-literal usage. This type of English would be in the category of 
meta-language: a very tightly-defined subset of English, and it would 
probably use the full (or verbose) form of the language, not using elision.

>    Needless to say, I imagine that Nikolao makes his suggestion for 
> computer (and programming) usage, and not for speech.

    I think that a streamlined, standardised and very straight form 
of English could be used in an emergency multicultural 
scientific-type environment, and then it could be spoken, but this 
sounds a bit like using a subset of Latin to describe a new species 
of plant... a little forced.

    An example of #English                 (# = Syntax-based, 
unelided, literal)

      v-English  "I am shopping."                 (v- = vernacular)

       #English  "I am doing the shopping."

   The VERB is not 'to be shopping'  it is 'to be doing' OR 'to do'.

   Here "shopping" is the NOUN, object of a transitive VERB.

   Alternatively, the phrase "to be shopping" could be used to 
describe themself by a person who has been the bought item in a slave market.

   Native speakers of English would, I imagine, find it almost 
intolerable to limit themselves to such a subset of English as #English.

   But as a Bridge Language, or an interface between people and 
machines, or between machines, it could be a goer ... and would 
probably work better than a subset of any other national language.

   However, I still feel that Glosa, itself, would do these jobs 
better than #English.

Saluta,

Robin




[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


