---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGRudWRiYSs3dnFxQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA1MTIxOTIxNDYzNS4wMmJiYmM2MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PGRudWRiYSs3dnFxQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 621
msgSnippet: Hello Friends, Frankly Stephan, I am overwhelmed. It s interesting that
  some people in the Planned Language world prefer simpler languages like Glosa because
nextInTime: 622
nextInTopic: 625
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1134992583'
prevInTime: 620
prevInTopic: 619
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: jvLMk9--aKFS4x6xtzDdgLHlddM7C8UPDGQ9hTMbpmpNbBm0QB3yAtUc9kI9L7yk_-vbVb_n4-R7xvry49ZNmZhUGdTUWUMj6W8IxS4uV5tnzlwkgS9JKKguqEUaxMIQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Introduction'
topicId: 619
userId: 147970330
---

Hello Friends,
         Frankly Stephan, I am overwhelmed.
         It's interesting that some people in the Planned Language 
world prefer simpler languages like Glosa because they don't want to 
learn a lot of inflection; while others enjoy getting their tongues 
around all of the possible complexities of languages, and hence, go 
for the more complicated languages.
         My guess is that you swallow them all whole, and don't 
notice any difficult bits.

         Despite all this, Glosa was developed because there is a 
very real problem with language: most people are only ever fluent in 
their native tongue.  And this was the reasoning behind Glosa's 
formation: It was planned to be a language that the vast majority of 
humanity could learn to use, at least functionally.

         Maybe you will be around when our leaders decide to adopt an 
International Auxillary Language (IAL).

         If so, you could find your education and interests helpful 
in working with the project.
         Have you heard of the Distributed Language Translation 
Project  (DLT, 1972)?  There was an attempt to make Esperanto the 
pivot language in a computer translation research project; the 
version of Eo used was supposed to be both computer readable and 
humanly readable.  Things didn't quite work out, however, and the 
funding was stopped.  The idea was to have all documents stored and 
transmitted around the system, only coming out as a national language 
at the output terminal, the information previously having been input 
into the system at another terminal that converted a different 
national language into the "distributed language".
         It was my belief that the project would have been completed 
satisfactorily had the pivot language been Glosa.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell

At 11:52 PM 12/16/05, you wrote:
>Sorry, I forgot to introduce myself:
>
>My name is Stephan Schneider, I'm 25, I'm studing computer science and
>I'm loving music and languages.
>I have learnt Esperanto when I was 18. I have also taken a look at
>Interlingua and I'm currently working on a Germanic auxilary language
>in the Folkspraak-yahoo-list. I have also learnt Russian, Latin,
>Klingon and Japanese, and I have done some lessons in Sindarin. (And I
>have learnt the "easier" languages English, French, Spanish and Italian
>as well). I'm from Berlin, Germany.
>
>Boni horo de Kristo nati!
>
>Plu saluta,
>Stephan Schneider


