---
authorName: stefichjo
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;stefichjo&quot; &lt;sts@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA1MTIxOTIyNTEwNS4wMmJjN2FiMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGRvYnFucytxY3IyQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 626
msgSnippet: '... It irritates me that in Glosa you can say is sounding and sounds
  . They are both the same, in my opinion. Glosa eu fono. - Glosa is beautifully'
nextInTime: 627
nextInTopic: 627
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1135177276'
prevInTime: 625
prevInTopic: 622
profile: stefichjo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 2j5JJFXsdu1PJhKjnVsZXesScS3QhMPSumyroMRAaoesNqgkhJ1ArqyMI0-t_GRPMBJ61jDg4uzAZgPNgueZ6q_WiDEentEaXQHbN5sV
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Plu hetero questio'
topicId: 618
userId: 86512570
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Robin Fairbridge Gaskell <drought-
breake=
r@p...> wrote:

> >Pagina 22: "Glosa es eu fono." -> "Glosa habe eu fono." =
Que?
> *** ~Glosa es eu fono.~
>       [Glosa is beautiful-sounding] - U-ci=
 habe 
> solo u proxi uti de un akti-verbi, ~es~.
> 
>       ~Glosa habe eu=
 fono.~
>       [Glosa has good sound] - U-ci eqa u ma normo uti de u lingu=
a.

It irritates me that in Glosa you can say "is sounding" and "sounds". 
=
They are both the same, in my opinion.

"Glosa eu fono." - "Glosa is beauti=
fully sounding." =3D "Glosa sounds 
beutiful."
"Glosa habe eu fono." - "Glo=
sa has a beautiful sounding."

I think "Glosa is beutiful(ly) sounding" is =
an angicism that is not 
appropriate for an auxlang. "Glosa sounds beautifu=
l" should 
do. "Glosa es eu fono." should mean only "Glosa is a beautiful 
=
sound." Or is this only possible when you say "Glosa es u eu fono."?

> >I =
think now that "u-ci" is a noun. ("Que u-ci es tu domi?")
> *** Ya, ~u-ci~ =
funktio iso u nomina-verbi: uti un 
> England-lingua, na sio uti u verbi, "=
pro-noun".
>             Id eqa u speciali Glosa stru: u =3D the; ci =3D he=
re. (this)

Gratia, sed ...
*verbi -> verba - or does "verbi" exist, too?

=
> >In this case a noun phrase with "domi" would cause the first noun 
to
> =
>become an adjective. In this case I would prefer "domi u-ci" 
(*"housy
> >=
that") instead of "u-ci domi" (*"thaty house").
> ***    ci =3D here       =
     la =3D there
>       u-ci =3D this           u-la =3D that
> 
>       =
   Iso u pro-nomina-verba, ~u-ci~ habe u funktio de u 
deskribe-verbi.
> 
>=
          Id loka intra u nomina-grega es pre u substantia nomina-
verbi.

=
So in a noun phrase the adjective comes first, and then comes the 
noun, ri=
ght? But this rule doesn't always apply, I will look for 
examples.

> >Cou=
ldn't Chinese be an interesting example of phrasing these
> >concepts? Thei=
r language is isolating as well.
> *** Id es so.  U Cina-pe pa dice a mi ke=
 an lingua habe u homo stru 
de Glosa.

Cool!

>        Sintaxi habe vikto!=

>       [sintax has victory]
>    Eng.  Syntax wins.
> 
> >Que "u bibli ge=
-grafo ex G. B. Shaw" es "u ge-grafo ex G. B. Shaw
> >bibli"?
>   *** Eng. =
 True, but clunkily so.
> 
>          Posi:   Id es u bibli qi pa es ge-gra=
fo ex G.B. Shaw.
> 
>                        Id es u bibli qi     es ge-gra=
fo ex G.B. 
Shaw.
> 
>                          Id es u bibli;            g=
e-grafo ex G.B. 
Shaw.
> 
>                        U-ci bibli gene ge-grafo=
 ex G.B. Shaw.
> 
>            Nota:   ~ge-grafo ex G. B. Shaw~ eqa u fo ko=
mplexi 
deskribe-grega.

Gratia.
Id es u bibli qui pa es ge-grafo ex G.B. S=
haw.
Ergo "qui pa es ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw" equa u deskribe-grega, que? 
Pl=
us-co "ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw" equa u deskribe-grega. Sed mu es 
poste subst=
antia-verba.

> >"There is" =3D "il es", but "It's getting dark" is "id gen=
e no-foto".
> >Why not "il gene no-foto?". Is there any real "id" that's ge=
tting
> >dark?
> ***  Good question.  ~il~ was a late addition to 
> the Gl=
osa lexicon: the authors found the need for that 
indeterminate "there".

B=
y the way, where are the authors now? Do they still develop Glosa?

Thank y=
ou for all the answers.

Regards,
Stephan Schneider





