---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGRzY2FmMytzbnZ0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MDIwOTE2MDQ1Mi4wMmI3YWI4MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PGRzY2FmMytzbnZ0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 666
msgSnippet: Ahoy Syntonica, e plu hetero Glosa-pe, Very true about the unwanted redundancies!  The
  problem simply comes from the fact that Ron Clark was using a
nextInTime: 667
nextInTopic: 667
numMessagesInTopic: 10
postDate: '1139467223'
prevInTime: 665
prevInTopic: 665
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: RjGsEj7Jev5M9DKe5MuOfxqYBWIrLLEKzYxvPgCB0zo-fNUbRXYVdUEDKIixmyUzp1gM3PtT96eu3l8LIpoVFeKHnVOjt5pySDEgKR270U5lKAwmkvzqzxHcMJwvqy_r
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Redundancies'
topicId: 665
userId: 147970330
---

Ahoy Syntonica, e plu hetero Glosa-pe,
       Very true about the unwanted redundancies!  The problem simply 
comes from the fact that Ron Clark was using a typewriter, and not a 
word-processor to compile his lexicon.
         A word of warning: the simplicity is deceptive.  I like it 
too, but one does have to THINK before speaking or writing in Glosa 
because it is supposed to work without non-literal language.
In Glosa, one is supposed to call a "spade" a "spade", and not use a 
metaphor.  But this is impossible sometimes, an on occasion it is 
difficult to avoid importing National-language idioms into 
Glosa.  So, to overcome this problem I have coined a new punctuation: 
the carat, "^"; if someone tells a tall story, and then declares he 
is ^pulling my leg^ (or ^shaking my arm^ if he comes from Germany), I 
will know that I have been dumped with some non-literal language!

         Meanwhile back to the redundancies, good and bad: originally 
the authors said that, as long as there was no clash, there ought to 
be, for purposes of style, one Greek root and one Latin root allowed 
for each lexeme.  I tried it, originally, with preferring only the 
Latin root, and the repetition was boring and became 
suffocating.  The idea of only one word per lexical item is 
attractive, and can be enforced on learners, but is sudden death for stylists.

         Where I discovered that Ron had been vastly over generous 
with the Classical metaphors, was the time I reverse engineered the 
"Glosa 6000" Glosa --> English word list.
         While all I wanted to do was prepare a corresponding English 
--> Glosa list, I sometimes discovered up to five Classical roots all 
related to the one English word.  The short answer is that the 
discovery of this glitch led to feverish activity on the production 
of word lists; and, you can find on the Net something called the GID 
(Glosa Internet Dictionary).  This is considerably bigger than the 
authors' 6000-word dictionary, and has been somewhat purged of 
excessive synonyms.

         The golden rule to the ```simplicity``` conundrum is that, 
as Ron said, the listener/reader comes halfway to the speaker/writer, 
and that utterances ought to be taken in context.

         Whilst a Glosa word can function  - within reason - as any 
part of speech, this dictate has to be tempered with common sense.  I 
found that although Glosa could often be briefer than a corresponding 
utterance in a national language or other Planned Language, it did 
often work out better to *spell it out in detail* in Glosa, to ensure 
clarity of communication.  For this, I found the concept of elision 
very handy, and as well as that coined the term "to un-elide".  My 
standard example is the English-language, abbreviated form "He went 
home."  While the meaning is completely clear in English, we all know 
you can't "went" a "home."  "go" is not actually a transitive verb, 
even though it takes *indirect objects*.   In this example, " home" 
is an elision of something like "to his home".  Thus I consider the 
rough translation ~A pa ki domi.~ as poor Glosa, and the un-elided 
form, ~An pa ki ad an domi.~ to be clearer and unambiguous.

The synonyms can be a worry, but shouldn't be.

         good, well:    boni [L] vs. bene [L] vs. eu [G]

    This is a hang over from the days that Ron declared the terminal 
vowel to be *floating* IE up to the choice of the writer.  Some Glosa 
word lists have ~bene~ others have ~boni~.  As far as I'm concerned, 
people will understand my Glosa if I use either.  Worse, poetically, 
I imagine there is an argument for having a special case for the 
adverbial form, which I feel ought to be ~bene~, while the general 
purpose "good" is ~boni~, as in ~Habe u boni di.~ or ~Boni di.~ for short.

    And my 1992 Glosa 6000 has:   eu   goodness, well

    So, I might say ~Un eu de u di pa kausa an de voko poesi.~

    Maybe ~eu~ is a more mystical "good".

    While there are various qualities and styles of sweetness I'd 
suggest that you take in the flavour of the sweetness of the words 
and decide for yourself.

        sweet:           sukro [L] vs. dulce [L] vs. gluko [G] vs. 
suavi [L](?!)

     You could resolutely stick to ~sukro~ for all instances of the 
concept "sweet", or you could check the Greek and Latin dictionaries 
for the etymology of these various words, and choose to use the range 
for the different nuances of "sweetness".
        ) For unsubtle sweetness of taste, I go for ~sukro~.
        ) Sweet music that makes me drift off is ~Dulce~ but not 
Mantiovani, who is ~sukro~.
        ) For me a beautiful woman dressed sweetly is more likely to 
be ~gluko~.
        ) I have never used ~suavi~, but if I did, it would be to 
describe the "sickly sweet".

     Negatives are very tricky, and need some decisive 
categorisation.  I did put out a Glosa Grammar Table once, and I 
think it is still on the Net.

         no(n) vs. ne vs. nuli         [this is only part of the story]

        nuli             nothing
        zero-tem, ze-tem  never
        nuli-lo          nowhere
        ne               not [before a word functioning as a verb]
        no               No!   [expletive]
        no-                       un-    [negates  an action]     ~An 
habe no-akti.~
        ...              And there are probably a few more negatives 
lurking about.

At 07:34 PM 2/8/06, you wrote:
>Ave panto-pe!  I am new to Glosa and find I am attracted to it 
>because of its simplicity and
>charm.  However, delving into the vocabularies, there seem to be 
>non-sensical redundancies.
>For example:
>
>good, well:    boni [L] vs. bene [L] vs. eu [G]
>negation:      no(n) vs. ne vs. nuli
>sweet:           sukro [L] vs. dulce [L] vs. gluko [G] vs. suavi [L](?!)
>
>Is there a discussion that someone could point me to regarding 
>these, or similar?  As you can
>imagine, finding good search terms on a micro-vocabulary is rather 
>difficult.  I would also
>imagine these have been debated somewhere.
>
>Also, I noticed the use of "suicide" for "suicide."  Wouldn't this 
>be "pig killer"? and the proper
>compound in Glosa be "se-cide"?  "Sui" in Latin means "self" and in 
>Glosa,  "se" is the form
>chosen.

Saluta,

  Robin Gaskell
     P.S.  Yes ~se-cide~ does follow the Glosa pattern better, and 
would be more recognisable  by non-speakers of English.             R. 


