---
authorName: "Eike Preu\xDF"
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: =?UTF-8?B?RWlrZSBQcmV1w58=?= &lt;mail@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PEUxRkM4bjQtMDAwSGJ3LTAwLnZhYm90LW1haWwtcnVAZjY0Lm1haWwucnU+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQzRkVGMkUwLjMwNjAwMDRAZWlrZXByZXVzcy5kZT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PEUxRkM4bjQtMDAwSGJ3LTAwLnZhYm90LW1haWwtcnVAZjY0Lm1haWwucnU+
layout: email
msgId: 691
msgSnippet: Hi all, I am very suspicious of the proposed kind of flexibility. It is
  one of the things that turned me away from learning esperanto. Let me give you my
  two
nextInTime: 692
nextInTopic: 692
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1140781792'
prevInTime: 690
prevInTopic: 690
profile: con4224
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 2pIIhdVnyv-MQgdozBezyChZvEHy741XFOtku8PesHtr0lGxA9Z1k1MiLiU1Ez4PeXW_S50H1cUyzZ1JGmN16cLrP6XzAg6Le8FKSpiGKxqYfCifylQr4w
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Kani vora vora'
topicId: 687
userId: 224356121
---

Hi all,
I am very suspicious of the proposed kind of flexibility.
It is one of the things that turned me away from learning esperanto.
Let me give you 'my two cents':

Flexibility in sentence structure is great for
a) learning to write/speak a language, and
b) poets
because you can write the way you are already used to from your mother
language.
My impression is, that the latter is one of the reasons for the
popularity of esperanto. There seem to be many creative people in the
community, that produce a large amount of texts.

Unfortunately, the flexibility makes learning to read/understand harder.
Every sentence you read has a different structure. The reader always has
to adapt to the way of the writer. The 'object-marker' gives the writer
the illusion that she doesn't need to care about structure, because the
marker clarifies everything. So, sentences tend to become a mess.
I tried to read a discussion thread in esperanto with help of a
dictionary, after taking 6 (or 8?) lessons of the freely available
learning program over a month or so. I gave up, partly because it took
me so long to find out which object belonged to which subject and verb
in the lots of very long sentences I found there...

I don't think flexibility in sentence structure would do glosa good.
Better than flexibility, in my opinion, would be a clearer definition of
what the sentence structure in glosa actually is/should be. Plus a way
to seperate parts of the sentence, so I like the idea of a 'neutral'
verb marker very much.

Saluta, Eike

Vasiliy wrote:
[snip]
> I have an idea of how to improve Glosa 
> and to make it greatly more flexible, original and popular. 
[snip]
I agree on the flexibility and popularity part. Originality, well, all
the esperanto derived languages, esperanto, ido, etc, use an
'object-marker' to gain flexibility in sentence structure, so it
wouldn't be very original, would it? :-)



