---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PEUxRkM4bjQtMDAwSGJ3LTAwLnZhYm90LW1haWwtcnVAZjY0Lm1haWwucnU+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MDIyNjAyMTIyMS4wMmI4YTg1MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PGR0Z3R0bStpNHFqQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPiA8RTFGQzhuNC0wMDBIYnctMDAudmFib3QtbWFpbC1ydUBmNjQubWFpbC5ydT4=
layout: email
msgId: 694
msgSnippet: 'Karo Vasily e plu Amika, It s late at night and I can t go through each
  sentence in detail, but here are my thoughts: a. There may be a good reason within'
nextInTime: 695
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1141051658'
prevInTime: 693
prevInTopic: 693
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: bbCHrZKHfEaXCjkRV7_KZXH2eEShuLAvOtx39zA4TLViwL5KGXwtN27gNRCRLMXxNSLeoPth4VCV-hIf1di1_frZz4J9Hd42f_ZZoA-yhH3pd9WV7eoRwfSkRfGb6ULq
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Kani vora vora'
topicId: 687
userId: 147970330
---

Karo Vasily e plu Amika,
         It's late at night and I can't go through each sentence in 
detail, but here are my thoughts:
a. There may be a good reason within Russian language usage for 
having free syntax, IE no set order of Subject, Verb and 
Object.  However I now prefer to think of these three element of a 
sentence as phrases, and their roles being 'Actor', 'Action' and Recipient'.

b. While indicating the receiver of the action with a distinctive 
(Esperanto-like) particle, "o", I can see this leads to the 
possibility of poetically fluid sentence structure, however, I think 
that in normal (S-V-O) sentence structure, this might be an 
unnecessary redundancy.  If there are two substantives each marked 
with a ~u~, and these are separated by another substantive, which is 
obviously acting as a VERB, then the
         ~U kani vora u sito.~
                                        form is both adequate and unambiguous.
    N.B. I use ~sito~  =  food.

  c. While using poetic licence, a creative person is quite able to 
rearrange his sentences to suit his purposes, the scientific writer 
will most likely wish to follow a streamlined, more-or-less 
rule-based syntax.  For this reason, I believe that a simple syntax, 
in which Glosa can be fairly simply spoken/written and accordingly 
reasonably easily understood/read by human communicators, AND also 
machine-parsed by computers suggests the retention of the most 
simplified form of the language.

d. I will agree that elision (omission of optional words) is an 
extremely legitimate, and very functional, dimension to the 
production of sentences in Glosa.  However, I feel that elision is 
being overdone, if it causes the reader/listener to stop and think 
about the syntax.  So, I think that it's better to err on the side of 
more syntax, than less.

e.  My feeling about using ~u~ and ~o~ as Noun  Phrase markers, and 
as well allowing free order - within reason - of the S, V, & O 
elements of the sentence will make the learning of Glosa considerably 
more difficult.

f. It is a little hard for me to explain the way I think of the usage 
of ~u~.  When Ron first told me it was not a replacement for "the" or 
"a" but more of a signpost leading into a Noun Phrase, I had a bit of 
trouble; but now, I see ~u~ and ~plu~ not only as necessary syntactic 
markers, but also as retaining something of the "articles" of 
English; thus I would see these particles as having rather special  - 
perhaps dual - usage in Glosa.

g. The ~u-ci~ and ~u-la~ Relative Pronouns have a reasonably clearly 
defined derivation, and I feel that clipping the ~u-~ part would not 
help the language.

h. Admittedly, for me, as a native speaker of English, both the S-V-O 
order and the formation of Head Final phrases, comes fairly 
naturally.  But, even so, I feel that there is plenty of 
psychological back-up evidence for Ron Clark's original choice of 
these among the Glosa specification.

         For all of these reasons, I believe that the alterations to 
the language suggested by you would tend to create a very different 
language, and get a significant distance away from the original 
conception of Glosa.

         It's 3:30 a.m. and I must go to bed.  Sorry if I did not 
treat each example with the consideration they deserved.

Saluta,

Robin

At 04:13 PM 2/23/06, you wrote:
>Kani vora vora
>-----------------
>
>Karo plu glosa-pe!
>
>Glosa is the finest IAL now.
>
>I have an idea of how to improve Glosa
>and to make it greatly more flexible, original and popular.
>And I want to inform about it all of you.
>
>Let's look on the simple Glosa sentence, for example:
>
>      Gl: U kani vora u vora.
>      En: A dog eat a food.
>
>Here, in the Glosa sentence:
>   First ~U~ is a noun marker (article).
>   Second ~U~ is a noun marker too.
>
>I suggest to refuse of using ~U~ as a noun marker.
>
>What if?
>
>Let's take up ~U~ as a s~U~bject phrase marker (S-marker).
>
>Further, let's add new marker:
>  ~O~ as an ~O~bject phrase marker (O-marker),
>wich in most cases may be omitted.
>
>(It slightly simulates  -o and -on in Esperanto)
>
>Further.
>Yet we have the verb primitives:  NU, DU, PA, FU, NE and ES, EQI,
>all of wich indeed play a role of verb phrase markers (directly or 
>indirectly).
>
>We can add to them else a new optional verb marker JE,
>which is nor tense particle nor aspect particle,
>and usually it may be omitted.
>
>  jE is a v~E~rb phrase marker
>
>
>Example:
>(~DU~ have a function of the verb marker here)
>
>U kani du vora o vora.
>S      V       O
>
>
>Example with the marker JE:
>U kanu je vora o karni = U kani vora o karni
>S      V       O
  .......................... 


