---
authorName: aristo_pe
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;aristo_pe&quot; &lt;aristo_pe@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGR1N2IzdCs0Mzc2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 697
msgSnippet: Karo glosa-pe, I ve been trying to learn glosa on my own for a bit, and
  am enjoying it immensely.  I like its isolating, pidgin-like quality. Now, highly
nextInTime: 698
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1141321661'
prevInTime: 696
prevInTopic: 0
profile: aristo_pe
replyTo: LIST
senderId: e6oVzrEyLVnp-VO3l2we3FKtL10GXj17N24DiCREEMS0Q5sBC1jiqLBQ3i5Ou6odUbZL9bVqbOwT4no68ktCGxWQZFeSfkYD
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Noun Phrase Markers?
topicId: 697
userId: 256782709
---

Karo glosa-pe,

I've been trying to learn glosa on my own for a bit, and am=
 enjoying
it immensely.  I like its isolating, pidgin-like quality.

Now, h=
ighly isolating languages are able to keep their "simple" form
by using a l=
ot of helper-words as markers.  Glosa does this rather
well for verb phrase=
s, but it has a very weak system of marking
noun-phrases, as in the classic=
 example:

plu tri celero fo-sono rubi vagona
'three fast loud red cars'

W=
hich one is the substantive?  You can figure it out well enough, but
it tak=
es more cognitive processing time than is desirable.  

My proposal is to u=
se the clitics -ci and -la (as in u-ci 'this' and
u-la 'that') as noun mark=
ers in cases where ambiguity might result, as
above.  Thus:

plu tri celero=
 fo-sono rubi vagona-ci
'these three fast loud red cars here'

This princip=
le, if deemed acceptable, would have a couple of cool
implications.  For ex=
ample, -ci and -la could be used to construct a
contrast between two simila=
r items:

eqo-ci es maxi boni, eqo-la es homo porko.
'this horse here is gr=
eat, that horse there is like a pig'.

Another extension of the principle m=
ight be the use of -co to mark the
resumption of the main clause after a lo=
ng relative clause.  In
written glosa, punctuation can express clause-bound=
aries, but this
might not be true in spoken.

Thus we might say in colloqui=
al spoken English:

"That bad man who hit me yesterday, he apologized today=
."

In Glosa, with my clitics proposal, we would say:

U kako andro-la; qui=
 bate mi pa-di; u-co dice penite nu-di.




