---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQ0MjBGOEQwLjEwMjAzMDBAdGhlYnJhbmNoaGVhcnRoLm5ldD4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 702
msgSnippet: 'Hello Glosa-pe, I have been thinking a lot lately about IALs and Glosa
  in particular. I believe the reason IALs have been relatively unsuccessful including '
nextInTime: 703
nextInTopic: 703
numMessagesInTopic: 14
postDate: '1143011536'
prevInTime: 701
prevInTopic: 0
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: PAJ2fWuAo9mwFCfbHmmNPR0MSgT1TS_I87j0xc3MnJKZElIzVic6t94o9egSClA1qTGs9wh0w7b9Q5mP56N4bM48czEw86CNBOlBDNk8IlmeOUUAiQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: The Glosa Killer App
topicId: 702
userId: 224099157
---

Hello Glosa-pe,

I have been thinking a lot lately about IALs and Glosa in particular. I 
believe the reason IALs have been relatively unsuccessful including 
Esperanto, is that there is not a good practical reason for learning 
them except for the pure pleasure or to "scratch an itch" so to speak. I 
think there is a parallel here between any IAL and a gaming console or 
early micro-computer without any applications. Nobody wants to spend the 
time to write a game unless there are several people who have the 
console and nobody wants to have a console with no games. In order for 
the first software piece to be successful, it needed to be so good, that 
people were willing to buy the console to get the game. In other words, 
the price of the game from the perspective of the consumer is the price 
of the game plus console. This first app is the "Killer App". All other 
apps afterword could be mediocre in comparison and still sell, because 
once everybody has the two-hundred dollar console, they could afford the 
extra twenty bucks for a cheap game.
I think IALs are in the same predicament. They are a neat idea, but 
hardly anyone else knows how to speak one. If an IAL is to ever become 
generally popular at all, I think it will need the equivalent of a 
killer app. What this implies is that the IAL which will win in the 
market of IALs is not necessarily the one that is most popular now, 
Esperanto. Its market share is still a fraction of a percent of what is 
possible and therefore all languages are on equal footing in light of 
the "killer app" paradigm.
Just like in the early mini-computer industry, the winners weren't the 
ones that were the most popular in the beginning as was the Altair or 
commadore, but rather the ones that delivered the killer app first.
In the IAL world, no killer app has ever been found for an IAL yet and 
thus the relative obscurity. If an IAL killer app exists, it must be so 
useful, that people will invest the time to learn the language just for 
this one use without any regard for the fact that they will ever get any 
other use out of it.
Here are a few Ideas for an IAL killer app, the last of which could only 
apply to Glosa and Glosa alone(or a very Glosa like language):
1. a multi-national company or department within a company needing to 
join efforts to complet a project that will take a year or more. An 
example might even be the department I work in at Texas Instruments here 
in Texas (of course). We have various satellite groups in various 
countries which are part of our department. This practice is growing 
industry wide and the cost of mis-understandings is high. I can tell you 
from many actual experiences that days are wasted on a big project 
because the nuances of communication get lost in translation. Most the 
people I have dealt with over-seas know English pretty well for a 
non-native, yet will mis-understand the simplest of emails. Because they 
are in a different time-zone, it isn't tell the next day when I hear 
back from they, that I realize they didn't understand what information I 
was requesting. At this point, I very carefully and redundantly, using 
the most simple English, re-write my request; two days wasted on a very 
hot project.
I think any IAL that is easy to learn would be a benefit in a similar 
situation where a group of engineers from two or more languages are 
thrown together to work on a long term project. However if a number of 
engineers from one of the languages also have a passing knowledge of the 
other, an IAL probably isn't the answer, or at least would be a tougher 
sell.
In my company we work with more and more Mandarin Chinese speakers on a 
regular basis. We are even being encouraged to pick up some Mandarin. 
Because of this, Glosa is a definite winner here because both English 
and Chinese are syntax languages. The idea that Esperanto would be 
better here because thousands or millions more speak it doesn't fly for 
two reasons. First, what presumably matters to our company is what will 
get the job done most efficiently for the projects on hand NOW. Nobody 
in the local area effected by the decision to use an IAL will know ANY 
IAL and thus they're all on equal footing. Secondly, Esperanto is highly 
inflected which is very foreign to Chinese speakers and only a little 
more familiar to English speakers.

2. Pen Pal language.
 I know it seems insulting to sell one's pride and joy as a toy language 
or Pen-Pal language when it can be so much more. But the point is that 
Glosa and other like languages can be easily used for just such a thing 
for children in schools where there are not the time nor resources to 
learn a full fledged natural language. Glosa gets the job done in one 
school year. Kids can quickly use it with a look up table for the 
vocabulary at first and write several letters in the first semester. 
There is no thought here that they will ever need it again. It is a 
"throw away" language.
If a language is sold in these simplistic terms as opposed to the Grand 
Ole Multinational World Peace Auxiliary Language angle, I think more 
people will actually bite.
The first telphones were not selling very well when the salesmen were 
blowing people away with the fact you could call someone all the way on 
the other side of the continent. One clever salesman got the ball 
rolling when he told housewives they could talk to their next door 
neigbors without ever having to put on their slippers.
3. Secret diary language
This is where the fact that the language is unknown very well works in 
its favor. Of course this probably won't be a big seller.

4. Intermediate language for real time translations between small 
vocabulary sets of all other languages for written communication. That 
was a mouthful I know. This is the one where only a language such as 
Glosa could be used.
This Idea occured to me as I was pondering Robin's GAS system. It is 
quite simple really. People desiring to communicate via HTML or email or 
real-time text messaging could use a set of tools that are Glosa aware 
and they can do it in a modified vocabulary of their own native language.
It works like this: An XML file is created with the Glosa Centra 
vocabulary as well as a table showing one corresponding word for each 
other language that is used including symbols such as Chinese 
characters. This can be expanded with time to include more and more 
languages.
Everyone wishing to communicate internationally would have this file 
somewhere on their system. Obviously, we're a long way from reliable 
translators. This system does not translate. The users would be required 
to use the Glosa syntax. The words they use from their own vocabulary 
must match in concept to the corresponding Glosa word.  Where there is 
no direct match, the closest word is chosen and the user would only have 
to memorize how these words are used in the Glosa context. For instance, 
an English speaker would not need to memorize that "bombus" means
bumblebee but would learn to put the word "multi" in front of all plural 
nouns to make them plural. In this way there is a "glosa" for every 
language and it is drastically easier to learn. The only real difficulty 
is learning what words are and are not part of the modified vocabulary. 
There may be various ways of dealing with this in the sofware by having 
it warn the user they are using a word not recognized and suggesting 
alternates, or by expanding the XML to allow for synonyms. If alternate 
words can be used in the input, there is still only one output in Glosa, 
and thus when the user reads what they wrote after translation, they may 
go back and modify a few words. After a little practice, and after 
reading the work of several others, anyone can quickly get aquainted 
with the  final output vocabulary.
In languages where sentence order varies from Glosa, a more advanced 
second generation form of the software should be able to use the GAS 
system to re-order the words.
Although most people at first would be unaware the Glosa was being used 
underneath the hood to power their communication, it would be a small 
step to pick up the vocabulary in order to verbally speak with others 
who have familiarity with this communication method and have also 
learned the Glosa vocabulary.
Here are some uses for this system:
A. A personal space web page network much like myspace.com except it is 
international. HTML files would have a Glosa tag indicating to the Glosa 
helper app to translate it to the user's vocabulary. An unaware browser 
would only show the Glosa text.
B. interlanguage emails. You can write emails in the "glosa" of your own 
language. The software translates it directly to Glosa and anyone with a 
Glosa aware email reader can read it, even if they don't know Glosa.
C. All web pages using the methods in A.
D. Documents or Books in PDF files. A typeset document such as a book 
has it's input from the users "glosa". The final electronic file exists 
as a Glosa typeset document such as a TEX file. This can be generated 
dynamically into the language of the user into a PDF file when they open 
up a PDF viewer.
E. Rapidly learn Glosa for spoken communication. At some point, people 
who rely on the above methods of communication may want to take it to 
the next level and verbally communicate with others. With the syntax and 
vocabulary concepts learned with use, all that awaits is the vocabulary. 
All the tools are already in place to do this easily with the foundation 
set with A-D. The user can set a parameter in their translator to allow 
a level of words to stay in Glosa. The parameter might look like 300:15 
meaning the first 300 words in the vocabulary list should appear in 
Glosa with the last 15 of this set (286-300) showing both Glosa and 
"glosa" side by side. As the user become more aquainted with the Glosa 
words, they up the number in their viewer till they are at 100% Glosa. 
This can be done passively over a few months of viewing web pages, 
reading emails and printing PDFs for offline reading. After this they 
may communicate verbaly with anyone who has done the same.
F. Learn other languages. Learning Glosa would be a snap with this 
infrastructure in place. Learning another foreign language would be more 
difficult because of the grammar and extended vocabulary as well as the 
inflections. This infrasture however would allow for a simple method of 
aquiring another language. Using the techniques in E, one could adjust 
the vocabulary back from Glosa to another language in the same way they 
did before but in reverse. Within months the user will know the "glosa" 
of the foreign language, which to a native speaker will sound like a 
pidgin variant, but will be understandable with some effort.
After this, the user can continue their education independently. This 
method will have given them a boost. If Glosa-pe were to write Grammars 
and Vocabularies for each native language, the student could refer 
directly to that for further instruction. The advantage of this is that 
Educational material can be written once in Glosa for a particular 
language after which, anyone from a Chinese speaker to a French speaker 
could refer to it in the "glosa" of their own tongue to help in the 
learning process.
**
Remember that in all the above cases, the final electronic documents are 
all in Glosa and readable directly by Glosa-pe. The XML vocabulary file 
is only used at the input stage and output stage.
It will also take some effort to learn to write in the Glosa way.
Contrarily, reading "glosa" can be done almost immediately with no prior 
knowledge at all. It may look like pidgin to a native speaker but they 
will understand the content and with more then a passing aquantance, 
they will be able to understand it very well as they get the Glosa 
grammar down. This will be the strong point in writing Glosa content as 
anyone in the world can read what you've written if they're literate in 
their own language.
The reason this can only be implemented in Glosa is that other IALs 
(save a small few) have inflection as opposed to syntax coding. This 
means if someone tried to implement this in Esperanto, they would have 
to hack out the grammar coding in favor of only roots. Now without 
grammar coding in the words, it would have to be put back in the syntax 
or word order. They may agree to a SVO system and plural markers, etc. 
Eventually, they will end up with a "glosa" The XML file would look 
almost the same as well.

Anyway, it's late here in Texas at 1am.
I'll call it a night.
Regards,
Bill


