---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDYwMzI3MTkwMTAxLjIyMzU2LnFtYWlsQHdlYjMyODA0Lm1haWwubXVkLnlhaG9vLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MDMzMTA3NDUxMC4wMmI0OTg2MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PEUxRk53WEktMDAwT3EwLTAwLnZhYm90LW1haWwtcnVAZjYyLm1haWwucnU+IDwyMDA2MDMyNzE5MDEwMS4yMjM1Ni5xbWFpbEB3ZWIzMjgwNC5tYWlsLm11ZC55YWhvby5jb20+
layout: email
msgId: 717
msgSnippet: Karo Wayne e Plu Amika, ... I wish to point out that Wendy Ashby has been
  working with creative people to incorporate Glosa into their creative work, and
  has
nextInTime: 718
nextInTopic: 718
numMessagesInTopic: 14
postDate: '1143758305'
prevInTime: 716
prevInTopic: 716
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: j7teBe08j277oxuHrqk8OMXIaQIdl-C9AWUYg0tdK29jkmtel9MDJO_v3zXlk6kNNVcPtiybRbzehQ8lXcmCAvgp2ql0ZGvGIF4xP28Sw62yqK-opVfg_NSrPY-RlLIa
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: The Glosa Killer App'
topicId: 702
userId: 147970330
---

Karo Wayne e Plu Amika,

At 05:01 AM 3/28/06, you wrote:
>I accidentally sent a part-formed reply.
>
>As I was going to say -- I think a conlang's success relies on getting
>it out in the popular consciousness, through things like literature,
>magazines, music, and film.  The best thing you could do would be to
>find a director willing to shoot short films in an auxiliary language,
>so that there would then be some actual material for interested people
>to be exposed to the language.  Glosa, like several other IAL projects
>I think could develop into something major given a chance, seems mostly
>to be the stuff of introverted journals.  At this point, even a blog in
>the language would be a big step.
>
>- Wayne S. Rossi
>
>--- Vasiliy <vabot@...> wrote:
>
> >
> > Hi Bill!
> >
> > Thank you for your message "The Glosa Killer App" and for your
> > thoughts.
> > It's all right.
> >  ...............

         I wish to point out that Wendy Ashby has been working with 
creative people to incorporate Glosa into their creative work, and 
has had a number of successes.
         A major lubricant to the process of dissemination, would be 
suitable instruction books - at various levels - and a range of easy 
readers in Glosa.  These still need to be written, and this is mainly 
because people interested in the language have stayed with 
vocabulary-building.  Once all had agreed on a suitable training 
vocabulary, then instructional works using this training vocabulary 
could be compiled by the group.  Additional words can be added, 
progressively in a primer, but their meanings would need to be given 
in the text, and in a range of languages.

         My favourite idea is ~Doci Glosa Uti Glosa~.  By starting 
with one Glosa word, possibly ~andro~, and adding to it with obvious 
pictures, a story can be built up without reference to any other 
language.  Needless to say, the learner will progress more quickly if 
he, or she, has a trainer dictionary in their own language.

         But, this is just one idea!  Each, who sees the beauty in 
Glosa, probably has their own idea of how others could best get into 
the language, and what sort of learner's book would achieve 
this.  All this should be based, as Vasiliy says, on a well worked 
out business plan.

         So, what's on our shopping list:
                 * a business plan
                 * well-written primers
                 * a learners' vocabulary
                 * creative people who write songs, make films, etc
                 * a forward minded philanthropist.

         That's enough for a start.  But we'd probably need a 
co-ordinating committee to ensure a balanced, and systematic, development.
         Maybe one, or more, graded grammar books would help, as well.

         What such a co-ordinating group would not need is endless 
discussion about what is best.  By now, with all that has been 
written in, and about, Glosa,  a dedicated group co-operating 
positively could quite quickly arrive at working principles that 
might be translated into the writing of various grammars, primers 
reading books, and the production of artistic works.
         I might have overlooked the financial sponsor.  However, a 
lot of creative work can be done with brains, pencils and paper - 
before a sponsor is found.

Best wishes to All ... for Good Communication,

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell 


