---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGUwYnFnbCt0NjBzQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MDQwMTIzMzI0MC4wMmI0MWE1MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDIwMDYwMzI3MTkwMTAxLjIyMzU2LnFtYWlsQHdlYjMyODA0Lm1haWwubXVkLnlhaG9vLmNvbT4gPGUwYnFnbCt0NjBzQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 721
msgSnippet: '... I will say that I can contribute to a blog, but not to other forms
  of art; also, the blog is instantly accessible to all with the curiosity and a computer'
nextInTime: 722
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 14
postDate: '1143898827'
prevInTime: 720
prevInTopic: 718
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: KEIHdYdnmlpDcumBenlzHz4qzdTyKuhiglxgc8lD9jAN8P6T1DMkf2dexsi8GV76uBlTC6beNmnWpsZpny3TxLoP6EBTUXFPpwgyypBU7jP7FTT0x7U_no295EgD0lr6
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: The Glosa Killer App'
topicId: 702
userId: 147970330
---

At 03:07 AM 3/29/06, Kevin Smith grafo:
>--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Wayne S. Rossi" wrote:
> > I think a conlang's success relies on getting
> > it out in the popular consciousness, through things like
> > literature, magazines, music, and film.
>
>True. The internet is cheaper, faster, and more global than any other
>medium I can think of. It also connects well with younger folks, who
>are (perhaps) more likely to try something radical. Thus, I would
>focus on it rather than paper books, magazines, music, or film.
>
>I also think that translating practical information is more valuable
>than translating material for art and entertainment. The biggest
>motivation to learn Glosa is to obtain useful information that is not
>available in the reader's native language. I'm not sure many people
>would be motivated to learn Glosa just to gain access to poetry or
>fiction.
>
> > Glosa, like several other IAL projects
> > I think could develop into something major given a chance,
> > seems mostly to be the stuff of introverted journals.
> > At this point, even a blog in the language would be a big step.
>
>True. It is much easier to translate text than to write original text.
>If there were a few sources of news, opinion, or culture that were
>freely available to be translated, that could be the starting point
>for a Glosa blog. These days, there may be some great blogs that use a
>Creative Commons license that would permit translation into Glosa.
>
>Translating a steady stream of material from French, Russian, Chinese,
>or whatever would be a powerful demonstration of IAL benefits. Doing
>the same for English sources would still be valuable, although not as
>much because English is so widely known.
>
>Imagine if 10 Glosa-pe each translated one blog posting or article
>each week, and posted them all to the same Glosa blog site.
>
>Kevin

         I will say that I can contribute to a blog, but not to other 
forms of art; also, the blog is instantly accessible to all with the 
curiosity and a computer connected to the Net.  I am getting too old 
to get my head around the idea, and rationale, behind blogging, so 
someone else would have to set up the site.  However, I would be a 
regular visitor.  Sadly I use only two languages: English and 
Glosa.  I would not be able to provide translations into any other 
language than my mother tongue.

Yes, it is an excellent idea,

Robin  


