---
authorName: Kevin Smith
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kevin Smith&quot; &lt;lingua@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQ0MzgxQzg2LjUwOTA1MDVAdGhlYnJhbmNoaGVhcnRoLm5ldD4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGUxYTQzNis1NHRsQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 745
msgSnippet: '... Still here. Will unsubscribe in a day or two. ... Nothing. That s
  what I did a few years ago. Aside from the vocabulary issues, I found a few'
nextInTime: 746
nextInTopic: 747
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1144558502'
prevInTime: 744
prevInTopic: 743
profile: kevinbsmith
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 3sD8G4_g4eU6lHmZhZEpXxygrspvkrNTtfXeAqFuJt3fi-mcB4TRY2gTd17MCdF_1J57oc03ZJEjkz0AH57yvfF-JF8Amw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: minimal vocabulary'
topicId: 743
userId: 155310954
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "William T. Branch" wrote:
>
> Hi Kevin (=
if you're still there)

Still here. Will unsubscribe in a day or two.

> Wh=
at prevents you from choosing a minimal vocabulary 
> independantly and pro=
moting it on your web site?

Nothing. That's what I did a few years ago. As=
ide from the vocabulary
issues, I found a few syntax/grammar concerns. Afte=
r a few months of
serious work, I ended up with a language that had about 5=
00 Glosa
words, and about 5 changes to the language itself.

But at that po=
int, it's no longer Glosa. It's not fair to Wendy and
Glosa-pe to claim I'm=
 promoting Glosa when it's not really Glosa. It's
also not fair to anyone w=
ho learns my dialect, because they will not
be able to read most Glosa text=
 with its thousands of words.

So in 2003 I renamed my language "Glo", impl=
ying that it was a
simplified version of Glosa. But having split from Glosa=
, I then
decided to switch from Greek roots to Latin, and chose the new nam=
e
"Tavo". Later, Lingua Franca Nova simplified its syntax to be almost
isol=
ating (like Glosa), so I mostly abandoned Tavo and just decided to
support =
LFN.

Looking back, I think I prefer the Greek roots to the Latin, so if I
=
do more work, I'll probably revert to something more like Glo.

To summariz=
e: I can't wholeheartedly support Glosa because:

1. I am aware of perhaps =
a dozen *possible* improvements to the
language which apparently have no ho=
pe of being debated and perhaps
eventually accepted into the official langu=
age.[1]

2. I think that a reader should be able to memorize, or have print=
ed,
about 500-1000 words of an IAL, and be able to read almost any text
tha=
t claims to be written in that IAL. The main exceptions would be
technical =
words in a field. Splitting the language into "core" and
"full" does not he=
lp, unless the non-core words are VERY rarely used.

> You mentioned your a=
ims are different then the Glosa community. 
> I'll bet there are as many d=
ifferent aims in the Glosa community 
> as there are people in it.

Perhaps=
. But Glosa doesn't seem to fit my goals. An unofficial dialect
of Glosa do=
esn't seem to fit my goals either. And a fragmented
community will have gre=
at difficulty promoting the language and
gaining widespread acceptance.

I'=
m sorry if I sound negative about all this. I really like almost all
of Glo=
sa. I am disappointed that it is not in a position to fulfill my
own ambiti=
ons for an IAL. Hopefully I will end up being wrong and
Glosa (or perhaps s=
ome other isolating IAL) will sweep the world.

Kevin

[1] A list of some d=
ifferences can be found under "Glo structures not
in Glosa" on this page:
h=
ttp://web.archive.org/web/20030704093009/www.qualitycode.com/html/glo-intro=
.eng.html
But also note that I abandoned some of these ideas when I moved f=
rom
Glo to Tavo. I think these and other ideas are worthy of dicussion and
=
*possible* inclusion in the language. I have an open mind.





