---
authorName: Kevin Smith
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kevin Smith&quot; &lt;lingua@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQ0M0I0MzQyLjQwNjA2MDFAdGhlYnJhbmNoaGVhcnRoLm5ldD4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGUxZ25iOStuNHRoQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 754
msgSnippet: '... I think we have to split the history of Esperanto into at least a
  few overlapping segments. Here is my grossly over-simplified version of history:
  1) until'
nextInTime: 755
nextInTopic: 759
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1144774825'
prevInTime: 753
prevInTopic: 753
profile: kevinbsmith
replyTo: LIST
senderId: t0e6n7o_kCL84AQn_mudoO_mbANc4xK9jMYNpDP2A9MZ_gaEuW8VKC4LzsLnqoE0Z3KSQCKRW_ZkcJ97y14PqRo7Ru4n-Q
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'IAL&#39;s and history (was: minimal vocabulary)'
topicId: 743
userId: 155310954
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "William T. Branch" wrote:
>
> Esperanto =
has been so slow to grow over the last century I think, 
> because it is no=
t as easy to learn as it claims to be. 

I think we have to split the histo=
ry of Esperanto into at least a few
overlapping segments. Here is my grossl=
y over-simplified version of
history: 
1) until about 1930 (pre-automobile)=

2) 1920 - 1990 (pre-email)
3) 1980 - present (email and internet)

During =
phase one, people talked a lot with each other, and formed
small, cohesive,=
 long-term groups. Books were widely used. Esperanto
did pretty well in cer=
tain communities, but had trouble penetrating
the mainstream.

During the s=
econd phase, people in Greater Europe (including the US)
grew more isolated=
, and started to rely more on mass media. This would
be a very difficult en=
vironment for an IAL to catch on.

The third phase started with limited ema=
il and BBS communications, and
now includes very widespread use of email, I=
M, and the web. This
allows a return to tight-knit communities. It allows p=
eople on
opposite sides of the planet to communicate easily and cheaply. It=

groups people by interest rather than by geographic location. 

My impress=
ion is that Esperanto has grown more in the last ten years
than it did in t=
he decades before that. On the other hand, with the
internet, anyone who he=
ars about Esperanto also discovers Ido and the
other alternatives. Esperant=
o has a wider reach, better learning
materials, and a stronger community...=
but it has competition.

Any strategies for promoting an IAL need to focus =
on the current
world, not on how things were in 1880. Internet. Blogs. Emai=
l. Cell
phones. Much wider translation of materials into local languages.
E=
nglish as the defacto (but not ubiquitous) global language.

Kevin





