---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGUxamExcysyaTYzQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 758
msgSnippet: Hello Glosa-pe Below is a repeat of text I put at the bottom of a message
  to Robin on this board. However, I realized after posting it, it probably should
  have
nextInTime: 759
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1144859516'
prevInTime: 757
prevInTopic: 0
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: wUvgIY5unMAoz5Y1qxJsQDWTIX86Xdk83zmc9pf8yX5om5IqAPMwZ7SM4b1HYUmMpB2-RvYvI6QVJ_jACisqmOmx5OCSZ4qteIiiA7uobAiC8O9bvw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Vocabulary conundrum
topicId: 758
userId: 224099157
---

Hello Glosa-pe

Below is a repeat of text I put at the bottom of a message =
to Robin on
this board. However, I realized after posting it, it probably s=
hould
have been addressed to the general board as its own subject since man=
y
Glosa-pe may not have bothered to scan to the bottom of the previous
mess=
age.

It is regarding the ideal size of a core vocabulary and why an IAL
sh=
ould have an extended vocabulary as well.

I suspect there is a good dividi=
ng line as well. I devised a thought 

experiment to address this after rea=
ding Kevin's site on Glo.



Using a small vocabulary can be burdensome for=
 the author, but as Kevin 

stated, that's OK because most IAL users read m=
ore then they write. 

However, at some point as you shrink the lexicon, it=
 also gets 

burdensome to read as well because trying to understand common=
 ideas  

conveyed in the language becomes a constant game of twenty questi=
ons. 

Where this magic point is should be the point of some research for a=
ny 

interested IAL developer. It may be as low as Kevin suggests at 500. 
=

Maybe less maybe more.



Kevin mentions how you would address a situation=
 where you're talking 

about an elephant. You would simply say "very large=
 grey animal with 

long tubular projection from face". (These are my words=
 as I don't have 

his website opened.) If you're going to talk about eleph=
ants often, you 

would say after the first description to convey what you'=
re talking 

about, "I will from here on refer to these as tube-faces"



T=
his is where my thought experiment starts. Let's imagine that a 

perfectly=
 wonderful language is developed that can really be learned in 

a matter o=
f a week or so because the vocabulary is at 500. Anything 

written in it c=
an be understood by anyone who knows these 500 words. 

After much testing =
during the design of the language, 500 was the magic 

number where the 20 =
question game wasn't over taxing to the reader.



Every work written would=
 average a number of grey elephant situations 

per page, whether a fractio=
n or number greater than one. This happens 

anyway with works of English p=
ushing new territory. (notice my use of  

the phrase "grey elephant situat=
ion" as an example) Because a lot of 

these concepts that must be defined =
up front are relatively common, they 

will also show up in several other w=
orks. All works that mention 

elephants will face a similar up-front descr=
iption and a simple 

reference word for subsequent referencing.



Authors=
 may be tempted upon seeing several previous works regarding 

elephants ju=
st to use one of the references without a definition. But 

this would be u=
sing a word not in the vocabulary. For the IAL to keep 

its integrity, the=
 authors MUST always pre-define all references in 

their own work because =
they can never assume the reader has read 

anything else.



No real probl=
em so far. This happens in all natural languages anyway. 

All works speaki=
ng of concepts that are likely not to be in the readers 

lexicon, the auth=
or should be aware enough to define the words that go 

with those concepts=
.



Being that several different authors would need to define elephants in=
 

various works, it is likely, even inevitable, that a different compound =


like word would be developed for each work, such as: "tube-nose" 

"flopp=
y-ear-giant" "thunder-snout" etc. The author and the
reader both 

know tha=
t these words *go out of scope* at the end of the work.



I imagine a nove=
l written in a language of 500 words might end up with a 

vocabulary of co=
mpound references exceeding the languages vocabulary. 

This does represent=
 a tax on the readers memory. A good author would 

have ways to minimize t=
his for long works with many references.



One way is to space definitions=
 so they don't clump together too 

tightly. Another would be to keep using=
 the long description for awhile 

with the corresponding word until the au=
thor feels sure the reader will 

remember.



Regardless of the techniques=
 the author uses to minimize memory strain, 

there will always be some.


=

A logical step for authors then, in the search for minimizing strain, is 
=

for there to be a standard word list for concepts that regularly pop up. 
=

This does not alleviate the need to pre-define all words in every work 

h=
owever, because of the possibility that a reader, especially a new one, 

w=
ill not be familiar with this de-facto word list or previous works with 

t=
he word. It does however make the memory strain of regular readers 

approa=
ch zero rather then a constant level of acceptable difficulty for 

everybo=
dy regardless of how experienced they are.



What this thought experiment =
shows is that an IAL with a small 

vocabulary - such as Glosa, but especia=
lly Glo and Tavo - SHOULD have 

both a core and extended vocabulary. The c=
ore should be all any reader 

should have to memorize up front to read any=
 text written in the 

language meant for auxiliary purposes. Obviously, th=
ose writing for 

themselves or other writers may use the whole language wi=
th no 

pre-defining of all extended words.



This is why I think the deci=
sion in Glosa to have a core and extended 

vocabulary was a good insight. =
The real questions are, what is the ideal 

size of the core and what words=
 should go in it?



We know the core must be as small as possible to get p=
eople to fluently 

read the language ASAP, while not being so small that p=
eople are 

constantly solving word riddles to figure out what the author i=
s talking 

about.



I, like Robin, don't mind synonyms. There are a coupl=
e of definitions 

for Rabbit in Glosa as well as several others. I think m=
any creative 

minds would not be attracted to a language without a large l=
exicon for 

expressiveness. I wouldn't mind if Glosa had 80,000 words as l=
ong as the 

core was minimal.



I hope my argument shows that it does not=
 have to be a question between 

IAL and expressiveness. It's really about =
writing in the "IAL style". 

That is; use a small core that everyone must =
know and define all words 

that are used outside the core within the work.=




-bill









