---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDJmZC4zNzI3OTkyLjMxNzI4NWY3QGFvbC5jb20+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQ0NDFBRkE2LjIwMjA0QHRoZWJyYW5jaGhlYXJ0aC5uZXQ+
headers.referencesHeader: PDJmZC4zNzI3OTkyLjMxNzI4NWY3QGFvbC5jb20+
layout: email
msgId: 761
msgSnippet: 'hello syd, I m considering writing something similiar for linux in C.
  Mine will not have all your features. It will just translate one word for one word.
  My '
nextInTime: 762
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1145155494'
prevInTime: 760
prevInTopic: 760
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: odx0QwW_9o5fNWC7YP3n9PJ5qcBTjWG7oPQxPYFTFgKb7BTMy7ZBSIqQlofYGL3zcSYlB-5N5D18R-uoLD2-M9r9OrFeNcbRFzAWAmSxyCaDiTuOZg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] .computer program'
topicId: 760
userId: 224099157
---

hello syd,

I'm considering writing something similiar for linux in C. Mine will not 
have all your features. It will just translate one word for one word. My 
intent is to write in Glosa first and use it to create English words so 
I can check my work. It will also allow me to post to this group in 
Glosa with a pseudo English translation.

Unfortunately I have so little time. I have four young kids and a full 
time job. I've been lucky to put about thirty to fourty-five minutes a 
day to Glosa Study. However the code should be very simple. It will 
probably take longer to create the XML file.

-bill
sydpidd@... wrote:

> I start in english, each function seems to have about 5 different  
> structures
> and each structure about 10 irregulars. To deal with them in my  program
> would take much time and effort and as I have had many years to deal  
> with them in
> my own brain, I simplify the structures into ones that fit easily  
> into my
> own glosa method.  The words themselves stay in or near english. My  
> problem in
> translating stems from my very poor memory - the very thing tht the  
> computer
> is so good at. the official glosa/english have some difficulties in  
> that a
> concept in one kanguage can lead to several different ones in the 
> other.  I am
> adjusting the dictionary to prevent i t as I use it.
> To make progranpm  makng easier, the entries are in lines ending with 
> "]",
> glosa words in use start  with"\", english ones with "*", comments 
> start wth
> ";", glosa words that I do  not wish to use start with "+" and english 
> with "#",
> words that the same in  english but can have different meanigs - 
> homonyms -
> have  "?"
> *key\klavi]
> *kind\?ness?srt?]
> *kindness\gentili]
> *kindsrt\speci]
> The  program reads through all lines so that any repeats etc are 
> picked up
> and shows  the translations in another box. Should it not find a word, 
> it shows
> the word  between two * ..... * .... Kye becomes *kye*
> "Th key to his fame was that he  was th kind of person who was always 
> kind".
>
> Th key to th he fame vp is tht he vp is th kindsrt ofth  person who 
> vp  is
> always kindness .
> U klavi a u an fame pa es ke an pa es u speci de pe qi  pan-tem es 
> gentili .
>
> sid


