---
authorName: Eike Preuss
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Eike Preuss &lt;mail@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PEUxRzhLT1UtMDAwQlhZLTAwLnZhYm90LW1haWwtcnVAZjIzLm1haWwucnU+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQ0RDVBMUU0LjQwMjA5MDRAZWlrZXByZXVzcy5kZT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PEUxRzhLT1UtMDAwQlhZLTAwLnZhYm90LW1haWwtcnVAZjIzLm1haWwucnU+
layout: email
msgId: 813
msgSnippet: 'Vasiliy wrote: [...] ... In SVO-order it would be It is what? , which
  is equally understandable if you restrict your language to SVO, so what is your
  point? '
nextInTime: 814
nextInTopic: 814
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1154851300'
prevInTime: 812
prevInTopic: 809
profile: con4224
replyTo: LIST
senderId: u30q0k64ovuexljxLXm5KqLpIDor-cvw1g5okeAn9sMYErky6mowXc7PCwxpmSk5zJMVSD_ThJohwbXW7CkUOYJBr7jznOM
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Heterodox (re: Kevin)'
topicId: 809
userId: 224356121
---

Vasiliy wrote:

[...]
> Also the phrase "What is it?" is another English pattern, because it has not a verb 
> phrase marker and it has not a subject marker, and it has not an object marker too. It 
> has no marker at all. But... draw your attention to the fact, that this phrase has the 
> OVS-order (!!)

In SVO-order it would be "It is what?", which is equally understandable 
if you restrict your language to SVO, so what is your point?
 From 'Glosa Basic Reference, Questions': "N.B. Question words which are 
the Object come after the verb."

> You ask: 'Is there a strong reason to allow other patterns?'
> But other orders (orders as patterns) are allowed in fact in all languages (in English 
> and Glosa too).

Well, whether it should be allowed in Glosa, could/should be discussed 
here, right? :) But I agree that the original texts like Hedo Prince are 
very English-like.

> For example, there is other pattern in your sentence above ;)
> The sentence 'Is there a strong reason to allow other patterns?' has VSO+O+O order!

In Glosa it would have SVO+O+O order, and be preceeded with 'Qe'.
Or split it up into
"Qe there is strong reason; (that) other patterns should be allowed?"

> 
> Let's place ~S~, ~V~ and ~O~ markers in'[]':
>  '[~V~] Is [~S~] there [a = ~O~] strong reason [to = ~O~] allow [~O~] other patterns?'
> 

> No one europian language has rigid order indeed.

That no european language has a rigid order might be an indication that 
there is a good reason for non-rigid order, but since I heard different 
things from asian languages, I don't see it.

> The rigid order is an illusion, cause usually people gut mix up an order with  elision 
> 
> in patterns and they can't distinguish articles as homonyms of markers.
> 
> 2. Posibility of free order is not a cancellation of the priority order. 
> Let it be the SVO-order, as it was and as it is in many Europian languages. 
> Other orders must be seldom in use and optional. 
> I guess that subject marker should be omitted, if it was a first word in sentence.
> As a result we might use mainly the SVO-sentence, you wrote: 'as there is a clear marker between S and V, and another between V and O, it is easy to understand' . 

My opinion: If you allow a free order 'optionally in seldom cases', you 
must provide strict rules, when and in which form they are allowed. If 
you don't provide these rules, you end up with people from different 
countries constantly using the word order they are used to from their 
native languages (which makes the language easier to write and a horror 
to read), and the SVO-order is no longer the 'priority order' if you 
read texts written by the different people. Most european languages also 
provide these rules btw.
But I think restricting to SVO is not so much of a loss.

Ciao, Eike

