---
authorName: Cameron Nedland
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Cameron Nedland&quot; &lt;kansaspatriot@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PEUxRzhDWFUtMDAwM1ZnLTAwLnZhYm90LW1haWwtcnVAZjExLm1haWwucnU+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEJBWTExNy1GMzJDQTI5QUZERDg3ODU1RTJBQjVGNkFGNDgwQHBoeC5nYmw+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 817
msgSnippet: 'Maybe this is a bad idea, but could we maybe Esperantize Glosa a bit
  by having nouns end in o, verbs in i, etc? ... '
nextInTime: 818
nextInTopic: 820
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1155403558'
prevInTime: 816
prevInTopic: 807
profile: cam69cam69cam
replyTo: LIST
senderId: bZ3diL0ZV0j9-SVJyrx8MxaAFsXcDuWaJdCrJM5NfSq5Kmx6cfGOf84-TMH1LcqIMMbvjVdpSOS56AHxfsSXx9OQfKF3QY5swJcuhz0tIOebClFh
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: heretic grammar'
topicId: 803
userId: 276819100
---

Maybe this is a bad idea, but could we maybe 'Esperantize' Glosa a bit by 
having nouns end in o, verbs in i, etc?


>From: Vasiliy <vabot@...>
>Reply-To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
>To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
>Subject: Re: [glosalist] Re: heretic grammar
>Date: Wed, 02 Aug 2006 12:57:16 +0400
>
>
>
>I had wrote about this problem in february 2006 (theme of my letter: "Kani 
>vora vora").
>
>Glosa must be improved, cause this language have vagueness of syntax rules.
>
>Let's compare Glosa  with English:
>
>The cow eats
>
>There is not a verb marker but in English (!!) we use the suffix ~s~ in the 
>verb.
>English have many irregular suffixes and implicit markers.
>Such irregular constructions help to orient in the syntax structure.
>
>If a conlang is 'completely syntax oriented' and have not implicit and 
>irragular
>additional resources, it should NOT COPY English.
>
>
>In february's letter i wrote about:
>
>Subject marker 'u' (s~U~bect)
>Verb marker 'je'   (j + v~E~rb)
>Object marker 'o'  (~O~bject)
>
>Also, it's possible to use 've' (VE~rb) as a verb marker,
>but it is in use as short 'vesti'.
>Therefor 've' as 'vesti' must be changed (for example) to 'ves' or somehow 
>else.
>
>
>Kevin Smith use 'ca' and 'da'.
>I think that 'da' sounds better then 'o'.
>I don't know what is better: 'ca' or 'je' or 've'.
>
>
>Kevin, I'd like your ideas!
>
>
>~~ A few my thoughts about noun, subject and object markers ~~
>
>
>Articles ('a' and 'the') are used in English as implicit subject and object 
>markers.
>For example, article 'the' is used as implicit object marker in phrase 
>"Fill the same",
>and as implicit subject marker in phrase "The cow eats"
>
>Indeed, a completely syntax oriented language
>is NOT in NEED of NOUN marker or any articles.
>BUT, it is in GREAT need of subject and object markers.
>
>Therefor, IMHO, the marker 'U' may be move away at all, as well as any 
>others articles.
>
>In february  i wrote of using 'u' as a subject marker,
>but it might confused somebody,
>who earlier had using it as a noun marker (article) in Glosa.
>
>May be 'su' (~SU~bject) would be better?
>
>
>For example:
>
>Su plu bovi je (/ca) vora da grasti
>S'mi ca vora da frukti
>(But the marker 'su' may be omitted in order SVO)
>
>
>Using of subject and object markers gives us an oppotunity to use the FREE 
>order of words.
>
>Examples:
>
>Su plu bovi je (/ca) vora da grasti (SVO)
>Ca vora da grasti su plu bovi (VOS)
>Da grasti ca vora s'plu bovi  (OVS)
>Da grasti su plu bovi ca vora  (OSV)
>S'plu bovi da grasti ca vora  (SOV)
>and so on
>
>
>And else:
>
>IMHO, any preposition is an object marker by its realy function,
>therefor using of construction ~preposition + marker U~ has redundancy.
>
>I think such consruction must be move away:
>Un andra es ge-morda ex u kani. -> Andra es ge-morda ex kani.
>An pa dice gratia a mi de u bibli. -> An pa dice da gratia a mi de bibli.
>
>~~
>
>Examples (modification of '18 step' examples):
>
>Mi fu lekto u bibli. -> (S') Mi fu lekto da bibli.
>Mi pa lekto plu bibli. -> Mi pa lekto da plu bibli.
>Mi pa visita u teatra. -> Mi pa visita da teatra.
>
>An pa dice gratia a mi de u bibli. -> (Su) An pa dice (da) gratia a mi de 
>bibli.
>Un andra es ge-morda ex u kani. -> (Su) Andra es ge-morda ex kani.
>
>Mi fu dice Glosa -> Mi fu dice da Glosa
>
>
>A gono es u posta-teka. -> A gono  es su posta-teka. = Su posta-teka es a 
>gono. (!)
>
>{'A gono es u posta-teka' is in order OVS in '18 step' text,
>   but WHY it might be correctly,
>   if Ashby-Glosa has no free-order resources?}
>
>A proxi gono es u strata-lampa -> A proxi gono es su strata-lampa (in order 
>OVS)
>U Teo es mi pastora. -> Teo es da mi pastora. = Da mi pastoro es su Teo.
>An duce mi para plu paci aqa -> An ca duce da mi para plu paci aqa = S'an 
>ca duce para plu paci akwa da mi
>
>
>
>
>Vasiliy Terehov
>Sochi, Russia
>
>Excuse me for my bad English.
>
>
>-----Original Message-----
>From: "Kevin Smith" <lingua@...>
>To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
>Date: Wed, 02 Aug 2006 01:04:48 -0000
>Subject: [glosalist] Re: heretic grammar
>
>
>
>
>
>Yahoo! Groups Links
>
>
>
>
>
>
>

_________________________________________________________________
Express yourself instantly with MSN Messenger! Download today - it's FREE! 
http://messenger.msn.click-url.com/go/onm00200471ave/direct/01/


