---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQ0RTNGMTVDLjQwNzA4QHRoZWJyYW5jaGhlYXJ0aC5uZXQ+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 824
msgSnippet: I ve been studying the NSM or natural semantic metalanguage developed
  by Anna Wierzbicka and Cliff Goddard. I was  pointed this direction by my need to
  define
nextInTime: 825
nextInTopic: 825
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1155789148'
prevInTime: 823
prevInTopic: 0
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 46rf43DexrUMeazC6BhxcgTA97s96rSlcdeWe3HVtLzmKPg-UfiWzABqa7Dx15q4vZ4tUqoPkHvdTC5xir6Ed4KRK04rwK6kRv93lc6ZRt_9W9UFYg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: natural semantic metalanguage and Glosa
topicId: 824
userId: 224099157
---

I've been studying the NSM or natural semantic metalanguage developed by 
Anna Wierzbicka and Cliff Goddard. I was  pointed this direction by my 
need to define Glosa words on the wiki. The idea is that words can be 
defined in terms of simpler words which in turn themselves get defined 
by even simpler words. At some point, the remaining words are so basic 
that you can no longer use more atomic words to describe them. The claim 
of NSM is that not only every language has a semantic core, but that 
every language shares a small number of words that although are 
lexically different, are semantically the same and can be used to build 
up the rest of the language. In other words, every language shares the 
same semantic core. So far sixty three primitives have been discovered 
and tested by various scholars.

If this claim holds up, (and so far it seems sound to me) then the 
implications are profound for all languages and especially constructed 
languages. It means a simple word list won't and can't cut it for an 
artificial language since several words don't really translate across 
very well. It suggests that a language is best taught by starting with 
these primes and working out from there. This could be a shot in the arm 
for any constructed language.

What is noteworthy here also is how expressive and natural sounding 
these primes are. I suspect that carefully choosing a beginner 
vocabulary from the primes and adding a small group of general words is 
enough to be very expressive in any language.

I've had some success with this so far in learning Chinese and starting 
only with the primes of Chinese with the extremely limited time I have.

For anyone interested visit 
http://www.une.edu.au/arts/LCL/disciplines/linguistics/nsmpage.htm .

Regards,
Bill


