---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MDgyMzEyMjAyOC4wM2Y0ZjM3MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 831
msgSnippet: Plu Amika, I have done some research, read through the NSM Homepage, and
  love it!!! Anna Wierzbicka just sat down and thunk ... and spent a number of years
nextInTime: 832
nextInTopic: 832
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1156301908'
prevInTime: 830
prevInTopic: 0
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: QB0DuHoCHML1WGHF62Zsmt5226oU2vaNQpMfHanP6bYDBas9zq9poL8xkTaKL9j6J-StFRqeo_6osSC8GzXdrVPFLhNlKY6oNWha__lW2UbtbvfP8W-r5vPZ885l9N92
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Wow! Natural Semantic Metalanguage (NSM)
topicId: 831
userId: 147970330
---

Plu Amika,
         I have done some research, read through the NSM Homepage, 
and love it!!!

         Anna Wierzbicka just sat down and thunk ... and spent a 
number of years doing it.

         She didn't get caught up in "parts of speech"; she didn't 
get caught up in "Classifications of Grammar": she just said there 
are basic categories of thought and language, and there is a small 
number of fundamental concepts (or semantic elements) in each category.
         The sixty-three primes are distributed amongst seventeen 
categories, and amazingly - unlike most Linguistic theoreticising - 
the NSM Project does not claim to know all the answers, and 
acknowledges that it is a 'work in progress'.

         And, if the Glosa fraternity play our cards right, an offer 
from us to act as a testbed for the further refinement of the NSM 
hypothesis could be accepted.

         I don't hesitate to reprint, here, the table of semantic 
categories and primes:-
    - - - - - - -
THE CURRENT MODEL

The NSM model has changed a lot since it was first advanced in the 
early 1970s. In Anna Wierzbicka's 1972 book Semantic Primitives, only 
14 semantic primitives were proposed and in her 1980 book Lingua 
Mentalis, the inventory was not much bigger. Over the 1980s and 
1990s, however, the number of proposed primes was expanded greatly, 
reaching a current total of 60 or so. The same period also saw the 
development of some important new ideas about the syntax of the 
semantic metalanguage. The current proposed primes can be presented, 
using their English exponents, in the Table below. Perhaps not 
surprisingly, the inventory of primes looks like a natural language 
in miniature.
Table: Proposed semantic primes (2002); new candidates in parentheses

Substantives:   I, YOU, SOMEONE, PEOPLE, SOMETHING/THING, BODY

Determiners:    THIS, THE SAME, OTHER

Quantifiers:    ONE, TWO, SOME, ALL, MANY/MUCH

Evaluators:     GOOD, BAD

Descriptors:    BIG, SMALL

Intensifier:    VERY

Mental predicates:      THINK, KNOW, WANT, FEEL, SEE, HEAR

Speech: SAY, WORDS, TRUE

Actions, events,
movement, contact:      DO, HAPPEN, MOVE, TOUCH

Existence and possession:       THERE IS / EXIST, HAVE

Life and death:         LIVE, DIE

Time:           WHEN/TIME, NOW, BEFORE, AFTER, A LONG TIME,
         A SHORT TIME, FOR SOME TIME, MOMENT

Space:  WHERE/PLACE, HERE, ABOVE, BELOW; FAR, NEAR; 
SIDE,       INSIDE; TOUCHING

"Logical" concepts:     NOT, MAYBE, CAN, BECAUSE, IF

Augmentor:      VERY, MORE

Taxonomy, partonomy:    KIND OF, PART OF

Similarity:     LIKE
    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

         Now I know where they get the stuff for The President's 
speeches: GW Bush talks in 'primes'.

         But, on a serious note, I really do think we ought to offer 
our services, en masse, to the people running the NSM Project.  And I 
propose Bill Branch as our spokesman.
         After all, Glosa is an up-and-running metalanguage, which is 
almost perfectly planned on the NSM line.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell 

[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


