---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQ1MTU2QzQ5LjIwMDA2MDJAdGhlYnJhbmNoaGVhcnRoLm5ldD4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 839
msgSnippet: Hello All, I ve written both Cliff Goddard and Ann Wierzbeka a thank you
  letter for their work. I ve also joined their mailing list and started a nsm wiki.
  I
nextInTime: 840
nextInTopic: 841
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1159031881'
prevInTime: 838
prevInTopic: 0
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: dt-R0rv9l1XNWKNp6QINbhhgtg2lCEVwYGp_aFpF-2gX8O_PesIa7XUEYDF0ctVu0bZAZTHRu9dU0dNtfO4vIobL0SmSlGIvvgeCkN8hcnp0c41pUw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: compilation of Glosa&#39;s semantic primes
topicId: 839
userId: 224099157
---

Hello All,

I've written both Cliff Goddard and Ann Wierzbeka a thank you letter for 
their work. I've also joined their mailing list and started a nsm wiki. 
I am currently compiling the primes from glosa to present to the NSM 
community as a tool for their research. I'm still trying to get a 
complete understanding of how glosa would contribute to their research.

I have a few ideas.  Basically the study of primes would benefit from a 
language with no baggage attached to the primes. For example the English 
word "someone" has a meaning which does not break down to "some one" or 
even "some person". According to the NSM folks, "someone" is a prime in 
it's own right. Also the word "touch" means various things; the NSM 
meaning, just one. When formulating explications, NSM researhers would 
benefit from a language that is clean from other language 
idiosyncrasies. In this way the researcher would not un-intentionally 
use a word because of the words secondary meaning and thus cause confusion.

The question is, does Glosa fit the bill. I don't know the answer yet, 
but I see a few issues. I would like to have a strong case for the 
usefulness of Glosa to the NSM folks before I present it.

In any case, I'm compiling the words now, and will present them to this 
list for review. Currently, I'm stuck on the word for "some". According 
to the dictionary it is either, "no-polio" or "oligo".

"Oligo" means few or several. This seams to bar it from being a prime. 
This meaning to me covers a range from, more then two to just being 
short of all.

"no-polio" may work, but being a compound word, it seems to cause the 
confusion we're trying to avoid. If we decide compounds are OK for all 
opposites then we must be consistant on all primes that are opposites 
such as "above" and "below". And if this is done, how would you be 
consistent with which word gets to stand on it's own, and which must 
have the prefix?

These are the questions, I know will be asked of us If Glosa is 
presented to the NSM community as a proposed test-bed language.

Any help would be appreciated for compiling this list. I have some words 
started on the wiki. All are welcome to add to it.

Unfortunately, I have just a few minutes a day, but I'm making steady 
progress. I work often 80 hours a week and help take care of my four 
young children. So linguistics is a hobby I have little time for. But I 
spend some time on it every week. I will try finishing this compilation 
as soon as I can.

Regards,
Bill branch


