---
authorName: wilko dijkhuis
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;wilko dijkhuis&quot; &lt;w.dijkhuis@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQ1MTU2QzQ5LjIwMDA2MDJAdGhlYnJhbmNoaGVhcnRoLm5ldD4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGVmNThyYyszN2xuQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 841
msgSnippet: Alo Bill, Nice idea (what is the URL of your wiki?). This is a good example
  of the serious use of artificial languages I would like to see more of. My first
nextInTime: 842
nextInTopic: 842
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1159079596'
prevInTime: 840
prevInTopic: 839
profile: vilkoos
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 3BHE4KZHNM7t7B3iMzcTdtIj_-WWpr62VUiTlMdb3nFE_xbgTiwLN0JQNJzRXCG9rKuAuKgGjAfe-CSa8xxhyd8VuGr2cqAIHOTX-Q
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: true
title: 'Re: compilation of Glosa&#39;s semantic primes'
topicId: 839
userId: 209370419
---

Alo Bill,

Nice idea (what is the URL of your wiki?).
This is a good exampl=
e of the serious use of artificial languages I
would like to see more of.

=
My first impression of Glosa is that we can say a lot using only a
1000 Glo=
sa words.
That seems to imply that Glosa words are strongly semantically
ov=
erloaded (one word can be used in various ways, has multiple
meanings). So =
I am curious, what makes you think Glosa would fit the bill?

PS. Why not t=
ranslate "some" as "two_or_more" or
"two_or_more_but_not_most"?
 
Bon voles=
.

Wilko


--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "William T. Branch" <bill@...>=
 wrote:
>
> Hello All,
> 
> I've written both Cliff Goddard and Ann Wierzbe=
ka a thank you letter
for 
> their work. I've also joined their mailing lis=
t and started a nsm wiki. 
> I am currently compiling the primes from glosa=
 to present to the NSM 
> community as a tool for their research. I'm still=
 trying to get a 
> complete understanding of how glosa would contribute to=
 their research.
> 
> I have a few ideas.  Basically the study of primes wo=
uld benefit from a 
> language with no baggage attached to the primes. For =
example the
English 
> word "someone" has a meaning which does not break do=
wn to "some one" or 
> even "some person". According to the NSM folks, "som=
eone" is a prime in 
> it's own right. Also the word "touch" means various =
things; the NSM 
> meaning, just one. When formulating explications, NSM re=
searhers would 
> benefit from a language that is clean from other language=
 
> idiosyncrasies. In this way the researcher would not un-intentionally 
=
> use a word because of the words secondary meaning and thus cause
confusio=
n.
> 
> The question is, does Glosa fit the bill. I don't know the answer y=
et, 
> but I see a few issues. I would like to have a strong case for the 
=
> usefulness of Glosa to the NSM folks before I present it.
> 
> In any cas=
e, I'm compiling the words now, and will present them to this 
> list for r=
eview. Currently, I'm stuck on the word for "some". According 
> to the dic=
tionary it is either, "no-polio" or "oligo".
> 
> "Oligo" means few or seve=
ral. This seams to bar it from being a prime. 
> This meaning to me covers =
a range from, more then two to just being 
> short of all.
> 
> "no-polio" =
may work, but being a compound word, it seems to cause the 
> confusion we'=
re trying to avoid. If we decide compounds are OK for all 
> opposites then=
 we must be consistant on all primes that are opposites 
> such as "above" =
and "below". And if this is done, how would you be 
> consistent with which=
 word gets to stand on it's own, and which must 
> have the prefix?
> 
> Th=
ese are the questions, I know will be asked of us If Glosa is 
> presented =
to the NSM community as a proposed test-bed language.
> 
> Any help would b=
e appreciated for compiling this list. I have some
words 
> started on the =
wiki. All are welcome to add to it.
> 
> Unfortunately, I have just a few m=
inutes a day, but I'm making steady 
> progress. I work often 80 hours a we=
ek and help take care of my four 
> young children. So linguistics is a hob=
by I have little time for. But I 
> spend some time on it every week. I wil=
l try finishing this compilation 
> as soon as I can.
> 
> Regards,
> Bill =
branch
>







