---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGVmcmZ2MStydnUxQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 845
msgSnippet: 'Here is a forward of a post from the linguist list and nsm list you all
  may find interesting. -bill (Seen on the LINGUIST list) Title: English Subtitle:'
nextInTime: 846
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1159807777'
prevInTime: 844
prevInTopic: 0
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: ZONyQszuOJ9NhIyc-tJ0VwbEycq_h3Ctc1BjgMVErj0JgIdyjpWODdKv8x5Jt01cmkvSL-e3m9e5nXFwWm4BldI2_qOJy0f_qYBoSEwL0gZXBlpgfA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: new nsm book
topicId: 845
userId: 224099157
---

Here is a forward of a post from the linguist list and nsm list you
all may=
 find interesting.

-bill


(Seen on the LINGUIST list)

Title: English
Sub=
title: Meaning and Culture
Published: 2006
Publisher: Oxford University Pre=
ss
             &nbs=3D p;   http://www.oup.com/us

Book URL: http://www.ou=
p.com/uk/catalogue/?ci=3D3D9780195174755

Author: Anna Wierzbicka
Paperback=
: ISBN: 0195174755 Pages: 368 Price: 
U.K. =3DA3 17.99 Comment: ISBN-13: 97=
8-0-19-517475-5
Abstract:

It is widely accepted that English is the first =

truly global language and lingua franca. Its 
dominance has even led to it=
s use and adaptation 
by local communities for their own purposes and 
need=
s. One might see English in this context as 
being simply a neutral, univer=
sal vehicle for the 
expression of local thoughts and ideas. In fact, 
Engl=
ish words and phrases have embedded in them a 
wealth of cultural baggage t=
hat is invisible to 
most native speakers. Anna Wierzbicka, a 
distinguishe=
d linguist known for her theories of 
semantics, has written the first book=
 that 
connects the English language with what she terms "Anglo" culture.

=
Wierzbicka points out that language and culture 
are not just interconnecte=
d, but inseparable. 
This is evident to non-speakers trying to learn 
puzzl=
ing English expressions. She uses original 
research to investigate the "un=
iverse of meaning" 
within the English language (both grammar and 
vocabula=
ry) and places it in historical and 
geographical perspective. For example,=
 she looks 
at the history of the terms "right" and "wrong" 
and how with t=
he influence of the Reformation 
"right" came to mean "correct." She examin=
es the 
ideas of "fairness" and "reasonableness" and 
shows that, far from =
being cultural universals, 
they are in fact unique creations of modern 
En=
glish. She does the same to other English words 
and phrases, as well as di=
ssecting the way 
English countries like Singapore and Tasmania 
have embed=
ded their own values into their adapted 
versions. This engrossing and fasc=
inating work of 
scholarship should appeal not only to linguists 
and other=
s concerned with language and culture, 
but the large group of scholars stu=
dying English 
and English as a second language.






