---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGVmNThyYyszN2xuQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MTAzMDE3MDcxNC4wNDk0ZDdhMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDQ1MTU2QzQ5LjIwMDA2MDJAdGhlYnJhbmNoaGVhcnRoLm5ldD4gPGVmNThyYyszN2xuQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 849
msgSnippet: Plu Amika-pe, Further to the NSM saga, I d comment on the use of primes
  and Glosa s way of doing it. The humble hyphen has no sound ... but preserves the
nextInTime: 850
nextInTopic: 850
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1162189659'
prevInTime: 848
prevInTopic: 842
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 6xoNMGJhWvLZvm0VPgNbu1wE4owyLivnJb1xKmDva_zfMGoj5i4GbZvJNKfKj2B-yzUfwWqnBzvgH_hsrXWJKfAb0QqwHPNZ6EuFUWsy7BHy8N3FX8up7tg51qj0IR8Z
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: compilation of Glosa&#39;s semantic primes'
topicId: 839
userId: 147970330
---

Plu Amika-pe,
         Further to the NSM saga, I'd comment on the use of 'primes' 
and Glosa's way of doing it.

         The humble hyphen has no sound ... but preserves the sound 
and meaning of the words it associates.

EG    Glosa-pe      is not      Glosape   and, according to the 
rules, would be pronounced differently.  Penultimate vowels (or the 
single vowel, where there is only one) is stressed; the former word 
has two stresses, while the latter would have only one.

Although we don't say  some-one  in English,  someone  could be pronounced
         sum-E-O-n      Using the trick of pronouncing the capital letter long.

Glosa on the other hand, being, as I might say, a Metalanguage, we 
can get away with demanding that the very helpful hyphen be given a 
clearly-defined function: i.e. separating the basic words of a composite word.

         This rule could apply to Glosa when functioning as an NSM.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell

At 05:33 PM 9/24/06, you wrote:

>Alo Bill,
>
>Nice idea (what is the URL of your wiki?).
>This is a good example of the serious use of artificial languages I
>would like to see more of.
>
>My first impression of Glosa is that we can say a lot using only a
>1000 Glosa words.
>That seems to imply that Glosa words are strongly semantically
>overloaded (one word can be used in various ways, has multiple
>meanings). So I am curious, what makes you think Glosa would fit the bill?
>
>PS. Why not translate "some" as "two_or_more" or
>"two_or_more_but_not_most"?
>
>Bon voles.
>
>Wilko
>
>--- In 
><mailto:glosalist%40yahoogroups.com>glosalist@yahoogroups.com, 
>"William T. Branch" <bill@...> wrote:
> >
> > Hello All,
> >
> > I've written both Cliff Goddard and Ann Wierzbeka a thank you letter
>for
> > their work. I've also joined their mailing list and started a nsm wiki.
> > I am currently compiling the primes from glosa to present to the NSM
> > community as a tool for their research. I'm still trying to get a
> > complete understanding of how glosa would contribute to their research.
> >
> > I have a few ideas. Basically the study of primes would benefit from a
> > language with no baggage attached to the primes. For example the
>English
> > word "someone" has a meaning which does not break down to "some one" or
> > even "some person". According to the NSM folks, "someone" is a prime in
> > it's own right. Also the word "touch" means various things; the NSM
> > meaning, just one. When formulating explications, NSM researhers would
> > benefit from a language that is clean from other language
> > idiosyncrasies. In this way the researcher would not un-intentionally
> > use a word because of the words secondary meaning and thus cause
>confusion.
> >
> > The question is, does Glosa fit the bill. I don't know the answer yet,
> > but I see a few issues. I would like to have a strong case for the
> > usefulness of Glosa to the NSM folks before I present it.
> >
> > In any case, I'm compiling the words now, and will present them to this
> > list for review. Currently, I'm stuck on the word for "some". According
> > to the dictionary it is either, "no-polio" or "oligo".
> >
> > "Oligo" means few or several. This seams to bar it from being a prime.
> > This meaning to me covers a range from, more then two to just being
> > short of all.
> >
> > "no-polio" may work, but being a compound word, it seems to cause the
> > confusion we're trying to avoid. If we decide compounds are OK for all
> > opposites then we must be consistant on all primes that are opposites
> > such as "above" and "below". And if this is done, how would you be
> > consistent with which word gets to stand on it's own, and which must
> > have the prefix?
> >
> > These are the questions, I know will be asked of us If Glosa is
> > presented to the NSM community as a proposed test-bed language.
> >
> > Any help would be appreciated for compiling this list. I have some
>words
> > started on the wiki. All are welcome to add to it.
> >
> > Unfortunately, I have just a few minutes a day, but I'm making steady
> > progress. I work often 80 hours a week and help take care of my four
> > young children. So linguistics is a hobby I have little time for. But I
> > spend some time on it every week. I will try finishing this compilation
> > as soon as I can.
> >
> > Regards,
> > Bill branch
> >
>
>
>
>__________ NOD32 1.1784 (20060929) Information __________
>
>This message was checked by NOD32 antivirus system.
><http://www.eset.com>http://www.eset.com


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


