---
authorName: ernobe
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;ernobe&quot; &lt;ernobe@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGVpOHA0OSthbzQwQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGVpYnNoZitjOGZjQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 854
msgSnippet: '... A newer version has been uploaded, that fixes this and makes several
  improvements.  Several words previously not recognized now are.  For example,'
nextInTime: 855
nextInTopic: 858
numMessagesInTopic: 12
postDate: '1162442095'
prevInTime: 853
prevInTopic: 853
profile: ernobe
replyTo: LIST
senderId: i-idQ0JY874MF1pBc3u-OP-5t6sogG7FUxbSqrgb42RmRtY1RIoPA54YEbMyV7SwzUJqFoq5hY5pNd1xqLShCXG2
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: English-Glosa web page translator'
topicId: 852
userId: 80863808
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "ernobe" <ernobe@...> wrote:
>
> I've dis=
covered a small error in the program, and uploaded the
> corrected version.=
  In assigning the plural to words, it would leave
> out a hyphen, which wo=
uld indicate that the 'plu' part was part of the
> conjectured word.  For e=
xample, 'endings' would return '?plu akro'
> instead of '?plu-akro'.  If yo=
u have the version that does this,
> perhaps you might want to download the=
 corrected version.
>

A newer version has been uploaded, that fixes this a=
nd makes several
improvements.  Several words previously not recognized now=
 are.  For
example, implementors or implementers now returns
'?plu-instrume=
nta-pe', whereas the previous version would leave out
the 'pe', physician o=
r mathematician now produce correct results,
whereas previously they'd go u=
nrecognized.  Generally, more
correspondences are attempted, which perhaps =
gives place to more
errors, but errors are better than failures.  Previousl=
y, I had
thought of not translating 'the' and 'a' since these words are oft=
en
left out in Glosa.  This version translates them and 'an' as 'u'. 
Some =
definitions in the dictionary consist of several Glosa words, as
for exampl=
e 'gene ma boni' for 'reform' and 'pa grafo' for 'wrote'.
Only the first wo=
rd of these will appear in the results.  Finally, the
program now cleans up=
 after itself and removes the other file that is
produced during processing=
. 



