---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDAwMTcwMWM3MDUyZSQ1ZTExYWU0MCQ1YTgxNzYzZUBhMGgzcjc+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MTEyMDIyNTIwNi4wMzFjZDUzMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PGVpcnNiMitxYWNtQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPiA8MDAxNzAxYzcwNTJlJDVlMTFhZTQwJDVhODE3NjNlQGEwaDNyNz4=
layout: email
msgId: 871
msgSnippet: Saluta plu Amika, ... I think we should work out what we are aiming at
  ... what are our long-term objectives, before going off in all directions. If we
  seek a
nextInTime: 872
nextInTopic: 872
numMessagesInTopic: 12
postDate: '1164025421'
prevInTime: 870
prevInTopic: 870
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: _KMoQbM83dWTlRM1sUZRtx_KqO3cWgCQ7iLSoKDSHYAPpnz4VPC2C0S2vjM0ZvDtIZJwy2QouMoInXHsZNkp9KDKGbR3efedyyK4Aed1ZK5cq2wT4RNxiee_2sWXrmrG
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: English-Glosa web page translator'
topicId: 852
userId: 147970330
---

Saluta plu Amika,

At 12:11 PM 11/11/06, Nikolao pa Grafo:

>Thanks. I will give the same for Esperanto.
>It would be intresting Eo<->Glosa
>For all: use a simple English, please
>(if you hate Eo)
>
>Nikolao

I think we should work out what we are aiming at ... what are our 
long-term objectives, before going off in all directions.

If we seek a 'Middle Language' [ML] that can go between two natural 
(or national) languages, then it ought to be "machine handleable, and 
the process of conversion to the ML from one language, and the 
translation of the ML to another natural language both ought to be 
machine handleable.  This was the ethic behind the DLT (Distributed 
Language Translation) project that had a form of "Esperanto" as the 
ML. (or bridge language) in 1972.  But the Esperantists sponsoring 
the DLT project kept too tight a hand on the form of their precious 
ML i.e. Esperanto, and demanded that the bridge be readily humanly 
readable ... as well as machine readable.

This was their mistake, and the decision crippled the DLT project.

So, if Glosa-pe wish to try their hand at making Glosa a ML, then the 
priority ought to be in making the form of "Glosa" used, for the 
purpose of translation, eminently machine readable first, and humanly 
readable second.

  - - - -
On a ^different tack^, I would advise users of Glosa that its syntax 
is very close to that of well-formed English BUT ...

  ... while well-written Glosa will map onto English (meaning that: 
replacing Glosa words with English-language equivalents will usually 
be readily understood by a reader of English), the opposite is not 
usually the case.  Properly syntactic Glosa is designed to be a purer 
form of communication than is vernacular English.

So, while I might be out of touch with present developments in Glosa, 
I am still of the opinion that Glosa's strength is in its Syntax-based Grammar.

The explanation is simply that much is assumed in vernacular English, 
and much elision occurs in its use.  This is satisfactory to 
native-born speakers of English, but causes hell for many learners of 
English as a Second Language.  It is for this reason that I put in a 
strong plea for the use of syntactically-correct, un-elided Glosa.

Saluta Mi Plu Amika,

Robin Gaskell


