---
authorName: Roy Fullmer
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Roy Fullmer&quot; &lt;ernobe@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MTEyNjIyMjg0Mi4wMzIzY2E4MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGVsNGVzbStiOHNoQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 873
msgSnippet: '... Much as I share your enthusiasm about the whole thing, I diverge
  with respect to the viability of a bridge language in a computer translation process
  ,'
nextInTime: 874
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 12
postDate: '1165344470'
prevInTime: 872
prevInTopic: 872
profile: ernobe
replyTo: LIST
senderId: U6fZVYNB25EozbEUE5HTJfFyDMrHpCKfbwpzGY6FqILgqzRB5WudetaR1UHWLLu1llB6jwaSNkzgyk1KPMx6mhGOXjAlExk
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: English-Glosa web page translator'
topicId: 852
userId: 80863808
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Robin Fairbridge Gaskell 
>   Interesting=
!
> This idea, that writing in Glosa demands using words in meaningful 
> c=
ontext is roughly the same idea that I have been stressing for 
> years, i.=
e. that the correct use of Glosa demands an elegant accuracy.
> 
>         =
 Thus, if information is laid down in Glosa, it is quite easy 
> to transla=
te out of it -- into other national languages and even into 
> other Planne=
d Languages.
>          If the above idea is correct, it would stamp Glosa =
as the 
> ideal Middle Language and as a suitable candidate for as the brid=
ge 
> language in a computer translation process.  What is more, the bridge=
 
> language, i.e. Glosa, or a close variant of it, would be readable by 
>=
 humans as well as by machines.
> 
>          And on the reference to "Glos=
a -> Esperanto" I would 
> definitely find the well-written Glosa version o=
f a document a lot 
> easier to understand than the well-written Esperanto =
version of 
> it.  In fact, I had to do a translation, on paper, from Esper=
anto 
> into English when the now Professor of Linguistics in China, Haitao=
, 
> insisted on answering my Glosa letters to him in Esperanto.
> 

Much a=
s I share your enthusiasm about the whole thing, I diverge with
respect to =
the viability of a "bridge language in a computer
translation process", whi=
ch to me seems very far-fetched.  

Things need to be written in Glosa firs=
t, then machine translated into
 other languages.  Of particular interest f=
or moving in this direction
is whether or not machine translated Glosa into=
 Chinese is readable as
an original Chinese language composition.   If so, =
it would prove very
appealing to the Chinese language speakers, who constit=
ute the largest
population on Earth.  It seems to me that what you've been =
stressing
for years has been known to them for millenia.  I'm studying an
a=
ncient Chinese classic which has been translated many times into many
diffe=
rent languages, and have discovered that a word for word
translation into G=
losa brings the meaning out much better than any of
them.  The development =
of the proper Glosa-Chinese wordlist requires
someone well versed in both E=
nglish and Chinese.   If Professor Haitao
doesn't speak a word of English p=
erhaps he will not get the proper
nuance of meaning of particular English w=
ords.  For example, the Glosa
word 'bali' would have to be translated into =
a Chinese language
equivalent that could transmit all the nuances of meanin=
g of which it
is capable, which in English is expressed by the word 'hurl',=
 and so on.



