---
authorName: Eike Preuss
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Eike Preuss &lt;mail@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGY1ZjRvNCs1ZzhtQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENFRkY5Q0U3LUFBMTMtNEMwRi05MzFGLUQwMDVENzI5MkIwM0BlaWtlcHJldXNzLmRlPg==
headers.referencesHeader: PGY1ZjRvNCs1ZzhtQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 915
msgSnippet: '... Well, it might be consistent in Glosa, but it diverges from all natural
  languages I know (which are not many, but anyway). That s not an argument, though.'
nextInTime: 916
nextInTopic: 916
numMessagesInTopic: 16
postDate: '1182497348'
prevInTime: 914
prevInTopic: 914
profile: con4224
replyTo: LIST
senderId: PjXTqQ8k4fBpFJa4ZG0OBlsFguuvOyD6HBOas2kCIIfmcKR2IBnw3QCYS2nCn4z3jcVUGgaNvmpLhWHz_zg97eywdz3RphU
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Numbers (was:Errors in 18 Steps)'
topicId: 905
userId: 224356121
---


On Jun 22, 2007, at 2:22 AM, nick_hempshall wrote:

>
> Yes. I agree with Doro. The system is entirely consistent in Glosa
>
> 7   is    seti
>
> 15  is    mo-pen
>
> 40  is    tet-ze
> [...]

Well, it might be consistent in Glosa, but it diverges from all  
natural languages I know (which are not many, but anyway).

That's not an argument, though. The question is, why could it make  
sense to say 'two hundred and twenty-five' instead of 'two two five'?

If you say 'two two five' you have to hear ALL of the numbers before  
you know something about the MAGNITUDE of the number, i.e. whether it  
is something in the thousands, hundreds, etc. If you deal with  
numbers a lot, e.g. if you are a mathematician (like I am :) ), or  
even if you are just interested in buying something, or if you speak  
about the dept of a country in the news, the magnitude is the most  
important thing - it simply makes a lot of a difference.
'two two five': the moment I miss one of the words, I get a  
completely wrong impression about the magnitude of the number and  
have no hint that this has happened.
'two hundred and twenty-five': as long as I understand the 'hundred',  
I get the right magnitude. If I miss the 'hundred', I hear 'two and  
twenty-five' and might recognize that I missed something.

To say 'two hundred and twenty-five' is simply MUCH LESS ERROR-PRONE,  
than saying 'two two five'.
In common speech I still can and will shorten things anyway when I  
think that the magnitude should be clear from the context.

I find this a serious drawback in the way numbers are handled in Glosa.

Saluta, Eike

