---
authorName: lenadi_moucina
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;lenadi_moucina&quot; &lt;lenadi_moucina@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGY1Z2FyaStpaTVuQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 918
msgSnippet: This is the part of page about Frater (artificial language seeming Glosa)
  where you can read the system of the numbers. You can see that Frater way can be
  use
nextInTime: 919
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1182510770'
prevInTime: 917
prevInTopic: 0
profile: lenadi_moucina
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 8XhgwqDd7h9HXH7fWOsU9VREWlK0rbMhWlatWJMh1T5WTtFolBk8l9ud4Rr-k7f4k476H-awxWxz8HKOA9QIzzDPO3hFdeKJG9xB-FowWsZf
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: numbers glosa //frater
topicId: 918
userId: 287459349
---

This is the part of page about Frater (artificial language seeming 
Glosa) =
where you can read the system of the numbers. You can see that 
Frater way =
can be use in Glosa for said numbers.
( the original page is linked here : =

http://www.smart.net/~bartlett/frater2.html#numerical )

*****************=
********************
FRATER language
     -------------------------
     RU=
LE 8.  NUMERICAL FORMS.
     -------------------------

If there is no nume=
rical form or any other way, including context, to 
indicate that a word is=
 and must be regarded as plural, use the 
modifier POLI. However, there is =
no plural form of words, plurality 
being indicated by other words or by co=
ntext; consequently, use of 
POLI is frequently unnecessary and should not =
be used if any other 
word or phrase indicates plurality or if specificatio=
n of number is 
not significant. 

frater2 uses the decimal system of numer=
ation. 


         NUL     0     DEKA    10
         UNI     1     SENTI   =
100
         BI      2     MIL     1000
         TRI     3     MIRIA   10.0=
00
         TETRA   4     LAK     100.000
         PENTA   5     MILION  1.=
000.000
         SES     6     MILIAR  1.000.000.000
         SEP     7    =
 BILION  1.000.000.000.000
         OKA     8
         NONA    9

As a matt=
er of convenience or euphony, it is permissible to elide the 
I from UNI if=
 the I is the last sound of the word or compound. 

Larger numbers are spec=
ified in a form similar to international 
scientific notation: a multiplier=
 times a power of ten; for example, 

73.000.000.000.000.000 SEP BIRGUL TRI=
 MULTI DEKA FORSE DEKASES 

Form multiples of ten and hundred by juxtaposit=
ion: 


         BIDEKA        BISENTI
         TRIDEKA       TRISENTI
    =
     TETRADEKA     TETRASENTI
         PENTADEKA     PENTASENTI
         SE=
SDEKA       SESSENTI
         SEPDEKA       SEPSENTI
         OKADEKA      =
 OKASENTI
         NONADEKA      NONASENTI

Units are appended in larger nu=
mbers. For example: 


         DEKAUNI    11     BIDEKATRI     23
        =
 DEKAPENTA  15     TETRADEKASEP  47
         DEKAOKA    18     NONADEKABI  =
  92

For larger numbers, for clarity make slight pauses or hesitations 
wh=
en speaking and insert hyphens when writing (if not using 
numerals). 

For=
 numbers larger than one thousand, specify the number of thousands 
in term=
s of smaller units. 


         DEKATETRA-MIL SESSENTI-BIDEKA-UNI  14.621
 =
        TETRASENTI-BIDEKA-NONA-MILION SEPSENTI-OKA-MIL SENTI-BIDEKA-
BI
   =
        429.708.122

Numbers with decimal fractions may be read in either o=
f three ways: 

1.234,5.678 

a) Simply by naming the digits and the decima=
l point: 

UNI BI TRI TETRA BIRGUL PENTA SES SEP OKA 

b) By naming the two=
 parts of the number with UNISURDEKA OT 
(literally, "of tenths," a special=
 idiom to indicate a decimal 
fraction) preceding the fractional part: 

MI=
L BISENTI-TRIDEKA-TETRA UNISURDEKA OT PENTA-MIL SESSENTI SEPDEKA-
OKA 

c) =
A combination method, naming the whole part in the conventional 
way and li=
sting the numerals after the decimal point: 

MIL BISENTI-TRIDEKA-TETRA BIR=
GUL PENTA SES SEP OKA 

An ordinal number begins with the particle SER. (Th=
ink of the 
particle as modifying a substantive with ordinality and the num=
ber 
modifying the particle with the numerical degree or ordinality.) 

For=
m multiplicative numbers by adding TEM to the cardinal numbers: 


        =
 BITEM   double
         SESTEM  sextuple

Form fractional numbers by compo=
unding UNISUR (one above) with the 
cardinal number. 


         UNISURBI  =
                 a half
         UNISURPENTA                a fifth
       =
  UNISUROKA                  an eighth
         DEKATETRA UNISURBIDEKATRI  =
fourteen twenty-thirds (14/23)

Hyphens may be inserted between components =
for clarity in writing.
BIDEKA-OKA UNISUR SENTI-TETRADEKA-NONA (28/149) twe=
nty-eight one 
hundred forty-ninths 

Large fractions with long verbal expr=
essions may commonly be written 
with numerals. 

Form collective numbers b=
y adding PER (by) to the cardinal numbers. 

TARIF JUGE BIDEKA DOLAR PER SE=
NTI. The price is twenty dollars a 
hundred. 

Because nouns, adjectives, a=
nd adverbs can have the same root, 
cardinal numbers can also be substantiv=
es with a collective sense. 


         UNI      a unity
         DEKABI   =
a dozen
         BIDEKA   a score
         MIL      a thousand (of somethin=
g)

In case of ambiuguity, the number can be prefixed to GRUP, as in:

BIDE=
KAGRUP a score 

****************************








