---
authorName: lenadi_moucina
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;lenadi_moucina&quot; &lt;lenadi_moucina@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGY2djVjMCtubmkwQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGY3MmZndCtucmpsQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 950
msgSnippet: '... (plural). ... is ... It seems to me, when I read the 18 steps , that
  u flori is the equivalent of THE flower and plu flori = THE flowerS . And it'
nextInTime: 951
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1184153949'
prevInTime: 949
prevInTopic: 949
profile: lenadi_moucina
replyTo: LIST
senderId: nG_Fpc41HezQsofC6JrjsJ-AE98xoYXil3QKidGNrTTO2xr47Xog2iNfQOKVQRqUCjweDF94NfHYUJeNMNviry3f4xZ00XXr22Q6p1Wl8Jem
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Singular and Plural'
topicId: 949
userId: 287459349
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "himalayanpussycat" 
<maryannehanna@...> =
wrote:
>
> I find that "plu" is used as a literal translation of "-s" 
(plu=
ral). 
> When I was learning English eons ago :-) I used to wonder, "What i=
s 
> this Western obsession with singular and plural?" As I began to 
> spe=
ak I gradually forgot about it. 
>  
> I believe that in most naturally iso=
lating languages where a noun 
is 
> usually translated as singular, actual=
ly contains plural meaning as 
> well. They do not normally use "plu" equiv=
alent particle, except 
> when they want to stress it. I noticed some insta=
nces of this in 
> Glosa as well. E.g. mo bibli (one book), tri bibli (thre=
e books); u 
> flori (a flower), poli flori (many flowers). In these exampl=
es the 
> "noun" (without -s or plu) seems to be singular as well as plural=
. 
 
It seems to me, when I read the "18 steps", that "u flori" is the 
equ=
ivalent of "THE flower" and "plu flori" =3D "THE flowerS".
And it is a prob=
lem when we want explain the Indefinite, because 
without article, we canno=
t known where the verb group is stopped an 
where the name group of the obj=
ect begin. A particle is necessary, 
and if we cannot use in Glosa a specia=
l mark for introduce the object 
of the verb action, using an article defin=
ite or indefinite is a way 
for eliminate the ambiguity. However, the using=
 of Plu and U for 
explain the indefinite article is not a good maner.
It n=
eed indefinite article OR "accusative mark".

By other way, it is not possi=
ble to get far away all rules unknowned 
in some natural language, all Glos=
a may be walk to the trash. A 
language can forget any rules if it use othe=
rs, and these naturaly 
are not existant in many others languages.

The tru=
e question is : "can you easily said what you want to say in 
Glosa?"

Tout=
es mes amiti=E9s
Daniel









