---
authorName: himalayanpussycat
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;himalayanpussycat&quot; &lt;maryannehanna@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGY3cGdjcitmaG85QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 957
msgSnippet: Glosa uses a kind of liaison (apparently inherited from a, an); when the
  words like a, u or ko are followed by a vowel or h (consonant; this is a legacy
  of
nextInTime: 958
nextInTopic: 958
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1184908507'
prevInTime: 956
prevInTopic: 0
profile: himalayanpussycat
replyTo: LIST
senderId: tbYt2gEtNvWYsCGioOp9xo4pi6rmyepfw_oKSlV1qQyHGeEN1bBNXYRmkV326sPLKbuDn7FeVjnHsxek3BXV_4d2nYsdD2131WsslKgqDC0HLhthX5Q
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: Liaison
topicId: 957
userId: 313863209
---

Glosa uses a kind of liaison (apparently inherited from a, an); when 
the w=
ords like a, u or ko are followed by a vowel or h (consonant; 
this is a le=
gacy of silent h; it's about time we grouped it not with 
vowels but with c=
onsonants, no?) d or n are added to create a 
liaison, making ad, un, or ko=
n (I consider this too as a kind of 
inflection): 
- u --> U plus(o) bibli.=
 (Another [additional] book) 
- un --> Un hetero bibli. (Another [different=
] book) 
- a --> An pa trena a Paris. (He 'trained' [went by train] to Pari=
s) 
- ad --> Mi pa veni ad Italia pre bi anua. (I came to Italy two 
years =
ago) 
- ko --> dice Glosa ko mi. (speak Glosa with me.) 
- kon --> Na pa un=
io kon an a tri horo. (We met him [by appointment] 
at three.) 
However, th=
is rule is not consistently applied: 
- u(n) --> France es u Euro-landa. (F=
rance is a Euro-country) 
- u(n) --> verifi u horo-tabula (check the time t=
able) 
- u(n) --> dupe un publika kampania (run an advertising campaign) 
-=
 ko(n) --> Ko u-ci grama mi mite u posta karta de mi urba; (With 
this mail=
 I send a postcard of my town;) 
And why isn't the same rule applied to oth=
er similar words; e, ab, 
pa, in, etc.? 
 
This rule may seem "natural" or =
"nicer" to anglophones but for 
people of many other languages it strikes y=
ou as odd. Perhaps with 
multiply defined vowels like English it may be rat=
her difficult to 
separate the two consecutive vowels without a little "bou=
ndary" 
sound (liaison). However, with distinctly defined vowels for Glosa =

and other languages this is not much of a problem. It is possible 
that a =
little problem may arise when the two vowels are the same 
(this would not =
be a problem for languages that clearly define short 
and long vowels); but=
 there are ways around the problem: 
- pronounce the two vowels separately =
as recommended in Niuspi (in 
Glosa too) 
- change the tone (down-up-down) =

- pronounce a tiny separator vowel: e.g. a+a --> a+(tiny u)+a 
- combinati=
on of these, etc. 
So, you know what I'm going to say :-) I recommend you w=
ould remove 
this rule (to make the language simpler). You may still use 
(=
exception) it in poetry, play, slang, etc. 
 
There are a few other (smalle=
r) issues I like to raise but I think 
I've already upset a few people (I'm=
 sorry). (Who the hell is this 
tyro making all these demands? [I mean well=
...]) So I will shut up, 
for now. Thank you. 
 
NB: All examples come from=
 "18 Steps to Fluency" 


