---
title: Glosa Vocabulary
layout: post
published: true
---


	

## English

#### [**Glosa-English**](glen), [English-Glosa](engl), [download as pdf](gid.pdf)

[2000 most frequent words](coglen).

[1000 most frequent words](centra) with English cognates (Ashby, Clark).

## Español/Castellano (Spanish)

[Español-Glosa](esgl1k.htm)	
[Glosa-Español](gl1kes.htm)

See below ["Word Kitchen"](index.html#kitchen) for more information
about these files.

## Deutsch (German)

GID (only Centra-words) Glosa-English with German translation
(machine-generated) of the English words: [gid\_de.htm](gid_de.htm)
(1.3 MB).

Files based on the list of the book “Deutsch - Glosa 1000” (a little
enhanced, but expired): [Glosa-Deutsch](gldt.htm),
[Deutsch-Glosa](dtgl.htm).

## Français (French)

[French-Glosa](frgl1k.htm)	
[Glosa-French](gl1kfr.htm)

[Daniel Macouin](http://danielmacouin.chez-alice.fr/) has assembled a
printable version of these files.

See below ["Word Kitchen"](index.html#kitchen) for more information
about these files.	
	

## Italiano (Italian)

Here there is a little machine-translated list
[Glosa-Italian](gmcoglit.htm) of an older version of the GID-Centra.
Translation-programs always cause funny nonsense, so this file could
only be a base for future work, but please do not use it without the
English version and not without thinking.

## Ruski (Russian)

[Glosa 1000 - Ruski](gl1kru.htm).	

[Ruski - Glosa 1000](rugl1k.htm).


## Swahili

There existed a printed version of "Glosa 1000" in Swahili, but no online content is available.

## Zhongguo-lingua (Chinese)

[1000 most frequent words](glch) with Chinese equivalents (Prof. [Liu Haitao](http://htliu.nease.net/glosa.html)).

	
-----

	
<span id="kitchen"></span>

## The Word Kitchen

Only for specialists, nothing for people afraid of problems:

[gidhist.htm](gidhist.htm) with further information to the GID and its
history, [missing words](gidmiss.htm) (outdated), [synonyms in Core](cosyn.htm) (outdated), [Similar Synonyms](simsyn.htm) (with solution suggestions of Glosa author Wendy Ashby), a ["Word Derivation Scheme"](gwds.htm).

	

Some changes have been made to the [Central list](centra.htm) (see
above). For those with historical interest the [original central
list](centrao.htm) could be found here.

	

**French**:	
The [French-Glosa](frgl1k.htm) list (see above "French") is from the
book "Français -Glosa 1000" by the Glosa authors Wendy Ashby and Ron
Clark themselves, but with some [corrections](frglcorr.htm).	
Only for historical interest, - please do not use it\! -: here you can
have a look at their old, original and uncorrected [French
list](frgl1ko.htm).	
The reversed list [Glosa-French](gl1kfr.htm) (see above "French") is
computer-generated from the corrected French-Glosa list. The book has no
Glosa-French list in it.

	

**Spanish**:	
The [Spanish-Glosa](esgl1k.htm) list (see above "Spanish") is from the
book "Español -Glosa 1000" by Richard Burrows and the Glosa authors
Wendy Ashby and Ron Clark themselves, but with some
[corrections](esglcorr.htm).	
Only for historical interest, - please do not use it\! -: here you can
have a look at their old, original and uncorrected [Spanish
list](esgl1ko.htm).	
The reversed list [Glosa-Spanish](gl1kes.htm) (see above "Spanish") is
computer-generated from the corrected Spanish-Glosa list. The book has
no Glosa-Spanish list in it.
