---
authorName: Daniel MACOUIN
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Daniel MACOUIN&quot; &lt;lenadi_moucina@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGZnbzhyait2cTFzQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1000
msgSnippet: Glosa stay in coma and nobody on this  forum.  Glosa can not have  the
  necessary minimal changes to maintain it alive. So, I use the freedom keeped by  this
nextInTime: 1001
nextInTopic: 1001
numMessagesInTopic: 14
postDate: '1194305203'
prevInTime: 999
prevInTopic: 0
profile: lenadi_moucina
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Wa-pK-8pTYStP2XfR8q0DjMkiCDdvW14Ll1QdnBaiOXn6OtJor1RdxcuDj0qVonnXnG0UhFufYOx-sT4lvQDtvHgOOm6k_ZItFBOmOmITLHc
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: Pan-glosa
topicId: 1000
userId: 287459349
---



Glosa stay in coma and nobody on this  forum.  Glosa can not have  the
ne=
cessary minimal changes to maintain it alive. 
So, I use the freedom keeped=
 by  this vacuum for explore any ways and
now explain a reformed Glosa. I  =
cannot use, naturelly,  the private
name of Glosa, and I choice Pan-glosa (=
Interglosa> Glosa > Pan-glosa)
for this "glosa++", where all is concept-wor=
d.

In Glosa, a word can be noun, verb, adverb or adjective. "Sampai", in
i=
ndonesian language (+150 000 000 speakers) may used as verb or
preposition =
or adverb  ("to reach"  or "until"). Many prepositions
(di, dari, ke ...) m=
ay be used in this tongue, without verbs, to say 
that need verb and prepos=
itions in english or roman languages. If it
is possible in the austronesian=
 languages, it is possible to extend
the concept of concept-word at all the=
 vocables, except a very limited
list of  markers.

***********************=
*************************
GRAMMAR OF PAN-GLOSA

The sentence order is allwa=
ys SVO subject>verb>complement [glosa's rule]
In a clause, a word modifies =
the following one. The last word of the
clause is the verb or the noun.[glo=
sa's rule]


Limited list of special words of Pan-glosa, that are not gener=
al concepts:
1- Personnal Pronouns  : MI TI ON NI VU MU SE. Note the change=
s the
glosa's NA and VI to NI and VU, and the unique third singular person.=

2- Relative pronoun QI [glosa's rule]
3- Articles U (singular) and LU (plu=
ral) [glosa's rule] [Lu is the new
form of PLU, that becomes an abbreviatio=
n of PLURI]
4- Interrogative markers QE and QO [glosa's rule]
5- Conjunctio=
ns E and ALO [glosa's rule]
6- the special discursive markers : CO [glosa's=
 rule]  and the new CE
(=3D what I will said now) [Pan-glosa's rule]
IT'S A=
LL! only 16 words.
[ 7- and the operators in mathematical  algorythmes : PL=
US EQI MULTA
SU POTA ... and so on. ] [glosa's rule for a part and pan-glos=
a'rule:
note the diferences MULTI/MULTA, EQI/EQA ...]

Important rules : 
a=
- all the normal words may be link with an article or a personnal
pronoun f=
or explain a gender (an-on, fe-tu,  bio-on, bio-lu, ru-lu
...) in the choic=
e of the speaker or writer. [Pan-glosa's rule]
b- Using -CO or -CE as suffi=
x, and any word become a preposition,
which mark the end of a verbal or nom=
inal clause and/or the beginning
of a nominal clause.. [Pan-glosa's rule]
c=
- Cardinal numbers need to be suffixed with -LU (exept MONO-U) .
[Pan-glosa=
's rule]
d- Propers nouns and pronouns cannot be use as concept-word (never=

adjective, never verb, never adverb, never preposition). They can only
be =
used as subject or object.. [Pan-glosa's rule]
e- E and ALO are used for li=
nk to words. For link two clauses or
phrases, . [Pan-glosa's rule] it is re=
commended, but not allways
compulsory, the help of the suffixes  -CO and -C=
E (e-co, alo-ce...)

Vocabulary changes:
i- Use KAU in place of KA (ambigui=
ty with -KA (the suffixal form of
KAMERA))
ii- Extend the meaning of  PRO a=
nd use it in place of TE (ambiguity
with -TE (suffixal form of TEXTILI)
iii=
- GE is the marker of the clause beginning with status verbs
(=3Dadjectives=
) . [Pan-glosa's rule]
iv- GO is the marker of the clause beginning with ac=
tive verbs
(transitive) . [Pan-glosa's rule]
v- the personnal pronouns may =
not be used as possessive: use MIA TUA
ONA NIA VUA MUA , whiches are normal=
 concept-words and may be used as
noun, verb, preposition, adverb, adjectiv=
es... . [Pan-glosa's rule]
vi- for proper nouns, use a compound e.g : PETER=
-ONA DOMO (Peter's house) 
************************************************=
**
Naturelly, I am afraid myself, by the hight freedom of the syntax.
Pan-g=
losa need now any texts to prove its congruence.

Daniel


