---
authorName: Gary R Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary R Miller &lt;justi.miller@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMDMwNjI2LjIwMDYxOS4xMjc2LjEuanVzdGkubWlsbGVyQGp1bm8uY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 100
msgSnippet: Dear Robin, It is difficult to answer your question about which language
  influenced my translation into Glosa.  My idea about translating is to translate
  from
nextInTime: 101
nextInTopic: 107
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1056679577'
prevInTime: 99
prevInTopic: 0
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Gmbq-kqeIY0Ko9w5BDvUEBkILDvtsD9qEIvaQdGpKr29ziKYdE-ZHVbJTqTXBrKhkwyPiGP2YINillN-VEwRkmsDd4ZWo6s4wgdf3g
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Translati de Qo Akti
topicId: 100
userId: 123051087
---

Dear Robin,

It is difficult to answer your question about which language influenced
my translation into Glosa.  My idea about translating is to translate
from one language to _thought_ first, and then translate into the second
language.  However, all the foreign languages I know (Esperanto best,
some Russian, German, and Latin) influence my translating into any
language, because they have helped me to look at my native language as a
_foreign_ language and see all the difficulties and idiosyncrasies it
has.  (The fact that Marcel has found two errors in my translation may
have some bearing here too, but I prefer not to think about it.)

What has influenced my translation into Glosa more than foreign languages
are the books _Central Glosa_ and _18 Steps_, the internet part of
Hogben's _Interglossa_ and what I read in _Plu Glosa Nota_ and
_Glosalist_.  I believe in _rhetoric_, the idea that language is
simplified when we all try to follow set patterns.

An English example of this would be:  A foreigner says to you, "I don't
want something."  A native speaker of English would say, "I don't want
anything."  You understand what the foreigner says and can't really find
any grammatical fault with his sentence, but because it is not what you
are used to, it takes a little longer for the foreigner's sentence to
"click" in your brain.

One element of this rhetoric or style in my Glosa translating is that I
like Hogben's idea of the "verboid" and sentence order.  I don't use them
perfectly, but you will see a lot of  words like _akti_ and _gene_ in my
translating.  Otherwise, I very much try to imitate what I have already
seen in Glosa.

* * *

Karo Robin,

Es no-facili: reakti a tu qestio; qo lingua pa dona influ a mi translati
per Glosa.  Mi idea de translati es; translati ex proto lingua ad-in
_puta_ proto-kron, po-co translati per u lingua bi.  Anti-co, panto xeno
lingua; mi habe ski de (Esperanto ma boni, plus mero de Rossija e Deutsch
e Latina) dona influ a mi translati per ali lingua, ka mu pa dona auxi a
mi te vide mi auto lingua homo xeno lingua e te vide panto no-facili e
idio-ra; id habe.  (U faktu; Marcel pa detekti bi ero in mi translati,
posi habe importa ci, anti-co mi hedo ne puta de id.)

U ra; qi pa dona influ a mi translati per Glosa ma de plu xeno lingua, es
plu bilbi _Centra Glosa_ e _18 Gradu_, plus u inter-reti mero de Hogben
_Interglossa_ e ali-ra; mi lekto in _Plu Glosa Nota_ e _Glosalist_.  Mi
este kredi de _retorika_, un idea; u lingua gene ma facili, tem panto na
tenta mimi plu pre ge-uti modela.

Mo mero de u-ci retorika alo mode de mi translati per Glosa; es mi este
amo de Hogben idea de _verboid_ e frase taxo.  Mi ne du uti mu ko
perfekti, anti-co tu fu vide poli tali verba _akti_ e _gene_ in mi
translati.  Hetero-co mi fo tenta mimi ra; mi pre vide per Glosa.

Saluta,
 _  _
  /.   Gary
#/\#
 ###

________________________________________________________________
The best thing to hit the internet in years - Juno SpeedBand!
Surf the web up to FIVE TIMES FASTER!
Only $14.95/ month - visit www.juno.com to sign up today!

