---
authorName: Daniel MACOUIN
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Daniel MACOUIN&quot; &lt;lenadi_moucina@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGZnbzhyait2cTFzQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGZndmFrZCtpbnN1QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1010
msgSnippet: http://www.glosa.org/en/seminar1.htm http://www.glosa.org/en/seminar2.htm
  In october 2007, I have published on this forum a translation of the Robin Gaskell
  s
nextInTime: 1011
nextInTopic: 1012
numMessagesInTopic: 14
postDate: '1194536397'
prevInTime: 1009
prevInTopic: 1009
profile: lenadi_moucina
replyTo: LIST
senderId: YQbuPZFzev3wYOOL38HS05XnQ_bzE_LpLTm5nsbkCGASJkugHhZ-7hkIZXo1U4TPHvZO3_ItXoEQpEItMMyq1yMa6su8mUgrgMEGpr4F0G9v
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Pan-glosa'
topicId: 1000
userId: 287459349
---


http://www.glosa.org/en/seminar1.htm
http://www.glosa.org/en/seminar2.htm
=

In october 2007, I have published on this forum a translation of the
Robin=
 Gaskell's seminars examples with new marker for the verbal phrases.
Now, I=
 insist with the rules of Pan-glosa.
I am not certain that all is correct, =
I am a beginner in Pan-glosa!
and I think that others sentences may be used=
 for explain in Pan-glosa
the ideas of the Robin'examples .
All the list is=
 not yet translate, because all my time is not for
Glosa. Wait and see.

**=
*********


{an}{go]{fu ma}{boni}{tri-lu}{celero e fo-sono}{vagona}{ge}{rub=
i}.
[noun][verbe for transitive verb][modifiers][verb][compounded
article][=
modifiers][noun][marker for status verb][verb]

--note that in Pan-glosa, A=
N is not a pronoun. Only one third singular
person: ON, which accept to hav=
e "gender" (an-on, bio-on, ru-on,
fe-on, ...)

***
the three fast, loud red=
 cars 
RG - plu tri celero fo-sono rubi vagona
Pg - Tri-lu celero e fo-sono=
 vagona ge rubi.
tri-lu celero, fo-sono e rubi vagona
***
...were quickly a=
nd excitedly talking loudly 
... pa du celero e excita fo-sono dice
... go =
pa du \ celero e excita e fo-sono dice
-- note: "\" is a punctuation to lin=
k the precedent word to the last
of the phrase, over the others.  Talking, =
it may be only a pause in
the voice, but it may be really expressed if nece=
ssary by ZU.

***
while running
tem kursi
tem kursi
***
The boy arrived. 
U=
 ju-an pa ariva
Ju-an go pa ariva
***
The girl went home.
U ju-fe pa ki a f=
e domi
a) U ju-fe go pa ki ad u ona domi
b) U ju-fe go pa ki ad-ce ona domi=

-- note : in a) AD is a verb and KI is a modifier
          in b) KI is a =
verb an AD becomes a preposition with the use
of -CE (-CO and -CE are symet=
rical)
***
The man will eat the meal.
RG- Un andra fu vora u vora
Pg- U and=
ra go fu vora u vora
***
She spoke so loudly that she was heard.
RG- Fe pa =
ta sono dice ke fe pa gene ge-audi
Pg- Fe go pa ta sono ke on ge pa audi
**=
*
The girl went home after she had eaten a good meal.
RG- U ju-fe pa ki a f=
e domi, po fe pra vora u boni vora
Pg- U ju-fe go pa ki ad-ce ona domi, po-=
ce on go pra vora u boni vora
***
I like to get away from the house.
RG- Mi=
 amo gene ab u domi
Pg- Mi go amo(gene)ab u domi
***
The boy, who was fat a=
nd badly dressed, arrived.
RG- U ju-an; qi pa es paki e mali ge-vesti, pa a=
riva.
Pg- (U) ju-an ge-pa paki e mali-vesti, go pa ariva.
***
The farmer ho=
ped that it would rain.
RG- Un agri-pe pa spera : ke id sio pluvi
Pg- a)U a=
gri-pe go-pa spera ce: (klima)-(on)go-sio pluvi
b) U agri-pe go-pa spera u =
sio pluvi
***
The letter       was posted        by the man.
RG- U grama pa=
 gene ge-posta ex un andra
Pg- a) U grama ge pa posta per-ce andra.
b) U gr=
ama ge pa posta per-u andra.
c) U grama ge pa posta per u andra.
[d) andra =
go pa posta u grama]
***
running (=3Dto run)     on wet grass
RG- kursi epi=
 ge-hidra gra
Pg- a)(go) kursi epi-ce hidra gra
b) go epi kursi u hidra gra=

c) go kursi epi u gra ge hidra
d) kursi epi-ce hidra gra
e) kursi epi-ce g=
ra ge hidra
***
the three uncounted, shouting, dirty boys
RG- Plu tri no-ge=
-numera, fo-sono, no-puri ju-an
Pg- Tri-lu no-numera, fo-sono, no-puri ju-a=
n
Tri-lu fo-sono e no-puri ju-an ge no-numera
***
... did not happily, quie=
tly try to run
RG- ... ne pa hedo, no-soni tenta kursi
Pg- a) ... ge ne hed=
o, ge no-soni go pa tenta kursi
b) ...go ne-hedo e no-soni, pa ne tenta u k=
ursi
 
***
The dog drinks the water.
RG- U kani bibe u hidra
Pg- U kani go =
bibe u hidra
***
He very-much enjoys to drink/drinking.
RG- An fo hedo bibe=

Pg- a)(an-)on ge fo hedo de-ce bibe
b) on go fo hedo bibe
c) An ge fo hedo=
 ke on go bibe



