---
authorName: Marcel Springer
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Marcel Springer &lt;marcel@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMDMwNjI3MDkxODIyLjQ4NTdFMzZCNjFAbGludXgubG9jYWw+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 101
msgSnippet: '[Glosa text below #####.] Last week I posted a German information text
  about Qo akti? into glosalist.  Thanks to Gary for translating it.  Now I have'
nextInTime: 102
nextInTopic: 104
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1056705499'
prevInTime: 100
prevInTopic: 90
profile: marcel_ingo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: rUB8LoQLkhn56CRlGzUanuuGkNjbH6klF_aRDXv89jwx0HSIrerjZL-Zo8JoXQ6eB6IQs4e89dbMnTEpRxtXdKFie_5VyzkM7QeRbg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: &quot;Qo akti?&quot;'
topicId: 90
userId: 142192462
---

                                          [Glosa text below #####.] 

Last week I posted a German information text about "Qo akti?" into
glosalist.  Thanks to Gary for translating it.  Now I have assembled
all the stuff I have got about this project into a little website.
You can have a look at it at  
  http://www.glosa.org/en/qoakti.htm . 

"Qo akti?" (What to do?) is an artwork project by the Netherlands
artist Mathilde ter Heijne.  It is a "video installation on six
monitors" about the French philosopher Simone Weil (1909-1943).  The
text of the movie is spoken in Glosa.  It is displayed now in a gallery
in Frankfurt/M. (Germany).  "Qo akti?" is certainly the first serious
Glosa movie.  Because of that and because of the international
reputation of the artist, "Qo akti?" will be an important step in the
Glosa and also auxlang history forever. 


qoakti.htm is no presentation with nice appeal, but it will fit for
the Glosa interested reader, I hope.  Features: 

* the description of the project by the gallery
  (This is the text I posted last week and that has been translated by
  Gary.  You can read the German, Glosa and English version in three
  parallel columns.)  

* a critique about the project 
  (from THE German newspaper "Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung".  I
  think, this text gives a better impression about "Qo akti?" than the
  gallery-text.  Parallel columns German and English.  There are some
  minor holes in the text, because I have got only a copy that has
  been partly unreadable.  My translation is certainly full of
  horrible English mistakes, it was difficult for me to translate such
  a newspaper text.  I would be very thankful for any help here.  Many
  thanks to the artist, who sent the text to me.) 

* a dictionary article about Simone Weil 
  (only in German, perhaps not valuable for you) 

* the script of the movie 
  (in Glosa.  Perhaps this is the most interesting thing.  It is
  written by Glosa author Wendy Ashby.  Thanks to Mrs. ter Heijne, who
  sent it to me.  I got it as fax and I typed it all in, what I could
  read, so there are certainly some Glosa mistakes here and some minor
  holes because of fax quality.) 

* pictures from the project
  (You may know them already: I had put them into the "Files" section
  of glosalist before.  Thanks to Mrs. ter Heijne for them.) 

* a photograph of the artist 
  (stolen from another website) 


#####[Glosa:]

Pa setimana mi pa bali u Deutsch info textu de "Qo akti?" a
glosalist.  Gratia a Gary de an translati id.  Nu mi pa kolekti panto
materia; mi pa gene de u-ci projekti; ad-in pusi inter-reti pagina.  Vi
pote vide id a 
  http://www.glosa.org/en/qoakti.htm 

"Qo akti?" es arti-ergo projekti ex Nederlands arti-fe Mathilde ter
Heijne.  Id es "video installation epi sixa televide-skuta" de
Francais filosofi-fe Simone Weil (1909-1943).  U textu de filma pa
gene dice in Glosa.  Id gene monstra nu in galeri in
Frankfurt/M. (Deutsch-landa).  "Qo akti?" sura es proto serioso Glosa
filma.  Kausa-co e kausa internatio famo de arti-fe, "Qo akti?" fu es
importa gradu in Glosa e plus in auxi-lingua histori panto-tem. 

qoakti.htm ne habe gluko vide, sed id gru pro plu Glosa interese-pe,
mi spe.  Id habe plu seqe ra: 

* un info textu de projekti ex galeri 
  (u-ci es textu; mi pa bali pa setimana e qi pa gene translati ex
  Gary.  Vi pote lekto Deutsch, Glosa e English versio paraleli in tri
  kolumni.) 

* u kritici-textu de projekti
  (ex u maxi gravi Deutsch nova-papira "Frankfurter Allgemeine
  Zeitung".  Mi puta; u-ci textu dona ma boni impresi de u
  galeri-textu.  Paraleli kolumni Deutsch e English.  Il es uno pusi
  fora in textu, kausa mi pa gene id solo homo kopi; qi ne holo pote
  gene lekto.  Certa mi translati es ple de horibili English ero.  Id
  pa es dificile pro mi: translati tali nova-papira textu.  Mi sio
  dice fo gratia de ali auxi ci.  Mega gratia ad arti-fe; qi pa bali u
  textu a mi.) 

* un artikla ex diktionaria de Simone Weil 
  (Id habe solo Deutsch, so id posi ne habe valu pro vi.) 

* u skripta de filma 
  (in Glosa.  Posi u-ci es maxi interese ra.  Id pa gene grafo ex
  Glosa autori Wendy Ashby.  Gratia a Siniora ter Heijne; qi pa bali
  id a mi.  Mi pa gene id homo telefax e mi tipo id panto in puta-me;
  mi pa pote lekto [qi], seqe-co certa id habe uno Glosa ero e uno pusi
  fora in textu kausa telefax qalita.) 

* plu pikto de projekti 
  (Vi posi ski mu a-nu: mi pa loka mu ad-in "Files"-mero de glosalist
  pre.  Gratia a Siniora ter Heijne de mu.) 

* u fotografi de arti-fe 
  (ge-klepto ex hetero inter-reti pagina) 



