---
authorName: sydpidd@aol.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: sydpidd@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGMzYS4zOWFhODJkZi4zNTk3ZTE1MkBhb2wuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1037
msgSnippet: dear patrick and daniel i think that the things people are saying about  glosa
  is that there are various styles of the one language. if for instance, you
nextInTime: 1038
nextInTopic: 1038
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1214678866'
prevInTime: 1036
prevInTopic: 1036
profile: sydpidd1926
replyTo: LIST
senderId: uXg6iKLrQQ9EnOH0PSnTqnIb6Z4-f8KM3cy0E4ijkRRT5QdXx09k-5WMmcAIDuUYgxv5o67s
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Better grammar discussion'
topicId: 1035
userId: 137587403
---

dear patrick and daniel
i think that the things people are saying about  glosa is that there are 
 
various styles of the one language. if for instance, you wanted to 
 
write poetry, you would be free with word order and grammar. if you 
 
needed to give precise instructions you would need some sort of strict 
 
grammar. both styles have their places in glosa - here are some 
 
thoughts about the more strict grammar. 
"yesterday, the men went to  london"
we can divde the sentence into "essential" section and "extra"(= 
 
"yesterday"). the essential section can be divided into "indicated" 
 
part(="the men") and "information" part which can also be divded into 2 
 
"went" and "to london"
the indicating part carries number -  single/plural, the first part of 
 
information carries time - past present and future ( "went"=past). the 
 
second information part is more variable. 
I have been interested in  glosa for about 30 or 40 years and often 
 
found it difficult to understand what has been written in glosa, my 
 
memory has become worse over the years so i call in the help of my 
 
computer to translate english to glosa and back. i first sketch the 
 
english into my version of glosa grammar and have the computer replace 
 
the "english" with glosa words.i.e.
"ths man dd go to london "
"ths"  is the introducing word of the phrase- "ths=a/the" plural, 
 
"th=a/the" singular", "man" = the head word (noun - countable word). 
 
the number is carried by the introducing word/ "dd"=did ........
 
prog being naughty !!!!!!



   


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


