---
authorName: Nick N. Mikhailenko
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Nick N. Mikhailenko&quot; &lt;nick0000@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDAwMDIwMWM4ZTE3MiQwNTg1NDMwMCQwYjY0YThjMEBhMGgzcjc+
headers.referencesHeader: PGMzYS4zOWFhODJkZi4zNTk3ZTE1MkBhb2wuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1040
msgSnippet: 'Thank you for your idea. Evrebody may use the words of home-language
  and the simple translator to Glosa or Esperanto Nikolaj. ... From: sydpidd@aol.com
  To:'
nextInTime: 1041
nextInTopic: 1041
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1214748929'
prevInTime: 1039
prevInTopic: 1038
profile: n1954mi
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 2L65F0Ohf0hFV5iVgclvb9nE2_hEFh5cW5zZCULk0E9kVyEPNBhYftblF3PT-N9hkmc_9NlJqtDDu7r06X2ZCZDLKaKS2jm5ZT0fEmFMup_Pmw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '3'
systemMessage: true
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Better grammar discussion'
topicId: 1035
userId: 234710567
---

Thank you for your idea.
Evrebody may use the words of home-language and the simple translator to Glosa or Esperanto

Nikolaj.

  ----- Original Message ----- 
  From: sydpidd@... 
  To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com 
  Sent: Saturday, June 28, 2008 10:47 PM
  Subject: Re: [glosalist] Re: Better grammar discussion


  dear patrick and daniel
  i think that the things people are saying about glosa is that there are 

  various styles of the one language. if for instance, you wanted to 

  write poetry, you would be free with word order and grammar. if you 

  needed to give precise instructions you would need some sort of strict 

  grammar. both styles have their places in glosa - here are some 

  thoughts about the more strict grammar. 
  "yesterday, the men went to london"
  we can divde the sentence into "essential" section and "extra"(= 

  "yesterday"). the essential section can be divided into "indicated" 

  part(="the men") and "information" part which can also be divded into 2 

  "went" and "to london"
  the indicating part carries number - single/plural, the first part of 

  information carries time - past present and future ( "went"=past). the 

  second information part is more variable. 
  I have been interested in glosa for about 30 or 40 years and often 

  found it difficult to understand what has been written in glosa, my 

  memory has become worse over the years so i call in the help of my 

  computer to translate english to glosa and back. i first sketch the 

  english into my version of glosa grammar and have the computer replace 

  the "english" with glosa words.i.e.
  "ths man dd go to london "
  "ths" is the introducing word of the phrase- "ths=a/the" plural, 

  "th=a/the" singular", "man" = the head word (noun - countable word). 

  the number is carried by the introducing word/ "dd"=did ........

  prog being naughty !!!!!!

  [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]



   

[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


