---
authorName: master1077
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;master1077&quot; &lt;master1077@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGc3bGtqcyszamtsQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1044
msgSnippet: Glosa is a very interesting language. It s words may be from Greek and
  Latin but it s grammar is very similar to Eastern language like Chinese and Japanese.
nextInTime: 1045
nextInTopic: 1045
numMessagesInTopic: 10
postDate: '1218336188'
prevInTime: 1043
prevInTopic: 0
profile: master1077
replyTo: LIST
senderId: vu-XeENsi1I81Z_pq_waq1zW-fzDDTrNuIgWcbhhZ5jrNTyb7pshpL2fpSIxAaz8P9Vn2AJ_zswp8L-Pk6TxmAAevbCVM88Z-1M
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: true
title: Hello, I have some questions about Glosa
topicId: 1044
userId: 351064327
---

Glosa is a very interesting language. It's words may be from Greek and
Lati=
n but it's grammar is very similar to Eastern language like
Chinese and Jap=
anese. For example, you can take "manu" (manage) and
put a "-" and "pe"(per=
son) to get "manu-pe" (manager).

When is it appropriate to use "-"? I know=
 it's mostly used for
suffixes and prefixes but can I use it to combine con=
cepts as well?
For example if I want to say "Pollyanna" can I use "fatuo-op=
timisti"?
Why isn't "fatuo akti" hyphenated?

I have another question, is G=
losa really a complete language? Can I
say all science terms in Glosa?

Is =
Glosa still a living language? I don't see many people using it on
the inte=
rnet and it's a shame because Glosa is a beautiful language. I
think it's e=
ven easier than Esperanto and Ido because you use simple
concepts to make b=
igger words and this language on has about 6,000
words. I wish the Glosa we=
bsite would be updated more often. Perhaps
you can have a news section in G=
losa which will bring daily or weekly
news? I think it will get more people=
 interested in Glosa.

Is Glosa being taught in countries like Africa? Is G=
losa being taught
in America or Europe, yet? In other words, I would like t=
o know how
Glosa is spreading around the word. 

Although the website hasn'=
t been updated in a while and no one on the
internet really talks in Glosa,=
 I am willing to still learn this
language. I will make on-line videos and =
probably a website and
message board to teach and spread awareness of Glosa=
, so please
respond this this E-mail.

Thank you.
 



