---
authorName: David
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;David&quot; &lt;daveyporter@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDAwOGYwMWM5MDA3YiQ0MDRmYWE3MCQwMjAxYThjMEBkYXZpZD4=
headers.referencesHeader: PGc3bGtqcyszamtsQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1046
msgSnippet: Hi Master 1077 - I will let other more knowledgeable glosa enthusiasts
  answer your more technical questions but yes, Glosa is a superb language however,
  as
nextInTime: 1047
nextInTopic: 1068
numMessagesInTopic: 10
postDate: '1218985767'
prevInTime: 1045
prevInTopic: 1045
profile: ecclesonc
replyTo: LIST
senderId: uMOkvNv6mFheQikHoz3ZK6WK_GRUuDBM59d4-kedAz3R5wVA_7E0O_W5BF4JESZxEmgY0DDwXof2Jp_InwnnqErULN903yZS2Q
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Hello, I have some questions about Glosa'
topicId: 1044
userId: 335799855
---

Hi Master 1077 - I will let other more knowledgeable glosa enthusiasts answer your more "technical" questions but yes, Glosa is a superb language however, as you probably know, there is no formal organisation to drive the language forward.   Ron Clark and Wendy Ashby re-introduced the language that Professor Lancelot Hogben designed/constructed in the 1940's (he called it Interglossa - see Interglossa by Professor Lancelot Hogben - Pelican Books published by Pensuin Books first published 1943).  Regrettably Ron Clark died in 2001- up to that time Some African countries were being targeted successfully - Wendy Ashby continues to publish Plu Glosa Nota and back copies are available.   There are glosa enthusiasts that have got to grips with the problem of the dictionaries so at least there is now one reliable "official" dictionary available (but only on the internet).   I  am impressed with the work carried out by Kevin Smith with regard to the dictionary (also available over the inet but not completed as far as I know) - he tried to deal with what he saw as the problem of word/meaning duplication.   I have not seen any contributions to the glosa forum from him so assume that he is no longer involved with the language.   I think that glosa does need some sort of organisation to promote it in a similar way that Esperanto has been organised and publicised - easier said than done.
   Regards,   David JP 


hOriginal Message ----- 
  From: master1077 
  To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com 
  Sent: Sunday, August 10, 2008 3:43 AM
  Subject: [glosalist] Hello, I have some questions about Glosa


  Glosa is a very interesting language. It's words may be from Greek and
  Latin but it's grammar is very similar to Eastern language like
  Chinese and Japanese. For example, you can take "manu" (manage) and
  put a "-" and "pe"(person) to get "manu-pe" (manager).

  When is it appropriate to use "-"? I know it's mostly used for
  suffixes and prefixes but can I use it to combine concepts as well?
  For example if I want to say "Pollyanna" can I use "fatuo-optimisti"?
  Why isn't "fatuo akti" hyphenated?

  I have another question, is Glosa really a complete language? Can I
  say all science terms in Glosa?

  Is Glosa still a living language? I don't see many people using it on
  the internet and it's a shame because Glosa is a beautiful language. I
  think it's even easier than Esperanto and Ido because you use simple
  concepts to make bigger words and this language on has about 6,000
  words. I wish the Glosa website would be updated more often. Perhaps
  you can have a news section in Glosa which will bring daily or weekly
  news? I think it will get more people interested in Glosa.

  Is Glosa being taught in countries like Africa? Is Glosa being taught
  in America or Europe, yet? In other words, I would like to know how
  Glosa is spreading around the word. 

  Although the website hasn't been updated in a while and no one on the
  internet really talks in Glosa, I am willing to still learn this
  language. I will make on-line videos and probably a website and
  message board to teach and spread awareness of Glosa, so please
  respond this this E-mail.

  Thank you.




   

-- 
I am using the free version of SPAMfighter for private users.
It has removed 2498 spam emails to date.
Paying users do not have this message in their emails.
Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


