---
authorName: David
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;David&quot; &lt;daveyporter@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDdEMTk2OUIwMDAzODRDQ0NCMDg4QjUyRjZFNThGNzU2QGRhdmlkPg==
headers.referencesHeader: PGdib3JkbytzdWlyQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1048
msgSnippet: Hello ML The original publication by Lancelot Hogben was a Pelican book
  first published in 1943 by Penguin books called Interglossa - there are still copies
nextInTime: 1049
nextInTopic: 1049
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1223483746'
prevInTime: 1047
prevInTopic: 1047
profile: ecclesonc
replyTo: LIST
senderId: hvLI0-_dxOw-Vhwkl7TCB-DCvPlfOzkusvNiV6P9aFNRRvVKHQyb73uZpzfvWYhtpj2sGam12A-PVwvG_RUFb0DGNA5PaqgL2w
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Hogben about esperanto'
topicId: 1047
userId: 335799855
---

Hello ML

   The original publication by Lancelot Hogben was a Pelican book first published in 1943 by Penguin books called "Interglossa" - there are still copies out there being sold by inet second hand booksellers.   The publication in question is aimed at linguists and the book is very technical (for me anyway).   However there are some interesting sections.  As far as I know Hogben's criticism of Esperanto was that there was a) surfeitt of grammatical rules  b) excessive number of essential words which the beginner has to memorize  c) intrinsic unfamiliarity of the words themselves - I quote from the book.   He also wrote (regarding the "unnecessarily large vocabulary) that there was a "need for semantic spring-cleaning".   
   Wendy Ashby - who publishes PGN (as you are probably aware) - would probably be able to shed more light on this.
   I was unaware of Chomsky's comment regarding auxiliary languages but have had discussions with others who take the line that an auxiliary language cannot succeed because "it has no soul" - meaning that it has no cultural background - for me that is  irrelevant.   Language is about communication and the pressing need for the world's peoples  is for us to be able to communicate with one another easily and without misunderstanding.  The reason why the ruling class do not promote an international language is probably because they do not want too much communication among the world's workers who may get together and demand an end to the insanity of this obscene  economic system called capitalism that they administer.
   Regards,   David.
   
   

  ----- Original Message ----- 
  From: ML 
  To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com 
  Sent: Sunday, September 28, 2008 10:02 PM
  Subject: [glosalist] Hogben about esperanto


  Hi,

  First, I apologize for my unskilful active use of English. I am going to do my best. Sorry, I 
  cannot use Glosa yet :-)

  But, I am a former user of esperanto. I gave up esperanto for some ideological, personal and 
  technical reasons... Glosa seems to me much more interesting as an auxiliary langage for 
  humanity. What was the Hogben's opinion about esperanto ?

  What is your opinion about Chomsky's declaration that esperanto (as any other constructed 
  language) is not a language ? It seems that the text of the interview with Chomsky is no more 
  available on the web, but any of you who would like a PDF copy, can ask to me. 

  ML



   

-- 
I am using the free version of SPAMfighter for Personal use.
SPAMfighter has removed 2892 of my spam emails to date.
Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len

The Trial and Professional version does not have this message in the email


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


