---
authorName: David
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;David&quot; &lt;daveyporter@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDVBQjRDRkU3RjM3QTQxN0E4Q0RBNDEzREM5MkNFMTUzQGRhdmlkPg==
headers.referencesHeader: PDAwMjEwMWM5M2VhNiQ5NzJjYWFmMCRjNTg2MDBkMCRAaXQ+
layout: email
msgId: 1059
msgSnippet: 'Hello Jacques, Wendy Ashby does not have email contact at present - I
  have contact with her by post at the following address: Wendy Ashby,Glosa Education'
nextInTime: 1060
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1225895549'
prevInTime: 1058
prevInTopic: 1058
profile: ecclesonc
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 3v2dEbcCRnc2_xq8tCthmV0NITqIUI9n5aNNg2CxCRhY4YiAUv75OprD1qZvm5BmVota2OIMImXRdjR603yRAqiYwN54vuMO7Q
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Glosa and Wendy Ashby'
topicId: 1058
userId: 335799855
---

Hello Jacques,
  Wendy Ashby does not have email contact at present - I have contact with her by post at the following address: 
Wendy Ashby,Glosa Education Organisation,  P.O. Box 18, Richmond, Surrey, TW9 2GE.

  You probably know that Glosa was a re-introduction by Ron Clarke  and Wendy Ashby from "Interglossa"   designed by Lancelot Hogben in the 1940's.   They made alterations to further simplify his "creation" and the re-introduction of Interglossa as Glosa seemed to be very successful initially.   Since the death of Ron Clarke during 2000 that impetus has tapered off and unfortunately - as far as I am aware - there is no committee or organisation (as such) to promote the language although much work has been carried out by others - e.g. Marcel Springer - the Glosa/English internet dictionaries were a necessary improvement.   

   For what my view is worth I think the language to be superior to others that I have looked at although the only one I have actually spent time on learning is Esperanto.   However I also think that Glosa could be further improved (superficially, nothing major) but I am not a linguist and am looking at it from an amateur's viewpoint.  If there was a committee to oversee the whole project that would be a great step forward.

   Regards,   David.







  ----- Original Message ----- 
  From: Jacques@... 
  To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com 
  Sent: Tuesday, November 04, 2008 5:55 PM
  Subject: [glosalist] Glosa and Wendy Ashby


  Hi, 

  Does anyone have an email to get in touch with the living creator (one of
  the 2) of Glosa: Wendy Ashby?

  Thanks

  Jacques Drapeau

  [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]



   

-- 
I am using the free version of SPAMfighter.
We are a community of 5.6 million users fighting spam.
SPAMfighter has removed 3038 of my spam emails to date.
Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len

The Professional version does not have this message


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


