---
authorName: andoromeda83
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;andoromeda83&quot; &lt;andoromeda83@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDAwODAwMWM5M2QyYiQxYzI4YmUxMCQ1NDdhM2EzMCRAaXQ+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGdmZXRkayt1YzdqQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1061
msgSnippet: Hello, A language can be as perfect as it wants if it has no fellowship.
  Esperanto is linguistically one of the worst auxiliary language but on the other
  hand
nextInTime: 1062
nextInTopic: 1062
numMessagesInTopic: 13
postDate: '1226504436'
prevInTime: 1060
prevInTopic: 1060
profile: andoromeda83
replyTo: LIST
senderId: wgNZeHWxa3pNHn2zo1sYF0jQHSguSQMITc2DQ5Q8UsFhgv734TUIgzrDHSocDVUX1G-o6nozk2UDhUILcFc8UggMcLsq9-_Iy78r3QQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Glosa vs IDO etc.'
topicId: 1051
userId: 297638457
---

Hello,

A language can be as perfect as it wants if it has no fellowship.
E=
speranto is linguistically one of the worst auxiliary language but on
the o=
ther hand still the only functioning auxiliary language because
it has a fe=
llowship that really practices it.

Ido is linguistically better contructed=
 than Esperanto, but has still
 a lot of unnecessary ballast from Esperanto=
. As a movement Ido is
small, but existing.

Glosa is linguistically totall=
y different than Esperanto and Ido. But
I consider it problematic that Glos=
a has no mechanism to distinguish
between verb, noun and adjective in its l=
exic.

But the greatest problem is: Glosa is practically dead. Just look at=

this group. No real activity. Glosa has no central authority and no
Wikipe=
dia, even Novial, Interlingue and Lojban have their Wikipedias.
Lingua Fran=
ca Nova is an active community on the internet, but Glosa
has nothing like =
that. So Glosa has currently no signifigance at all.

The people here shoul=
d think about how to change that....

Many greetings
Andoromeda






--- I=
n glosalist@yahoogroups.com, <Jacques@...> wrote:
>
> Hi, 
> 
> Just joined=
. I definitely want to learn an IAL and my preliminary
screening
> tells me=
 that the two best choices are probably Glosa or IDO. I tend to
> prefer GL=
OSA. Would you have any article or site where I could find a
> comparison o=
f the two, showing the advantages of Glosa over IDO? 
> 
> In fact if Glosa=
 is the most recent of the IALs, created after
having looked
> at all the o=
ther ones created earlier, is there not somewhere an article
> comparing ad=
vantageously Glosa to all the other main IAL?
> 
>  
> 
> Thanks for your h=
elp. 
> 
>  
> 
> Jacques Drapeau
> 
> ex Canadian diplomat
> 
> Living in =
Rome, Italy. 
> 
>  
> 
> PS: Is there a 'central authority' somewhere cont=
rolling the
standards and
> the spreading of Glosa worldwide? The website w=
ww.glosa.org is very
limited.
> What is the main website(s) about Glosa?
> =

>  
> 
> 
> 
> [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
>



