---
authorName: Kevin Smith
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kevin Smith&quot; &lt;lingua@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGdnOHMzaCs3Yjh1QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGdnOTlhais4ZXU0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1071
msgSnippet: '... Can an organization that promotes international communication be
  relevant without an internet/email presence? Years after leaving the Glosa community,
  I'
nextInTime: 1072
nextInTopic: 1072
numMessagesInTopic: 10
postDate: '1227368595'
prevInTime: 1070
prevInTopic: 1069
profile: kevinbsmith
replyTo: LIST
senderId: jSbhjrBlp2cDOhCp5r0HdU_byjigwcF-r181SCtvef34iMn9VBN2DtzPy8AX2EF7M96CRvFhrgGEk78d-LTWywlnq-FzSw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Hello, I have some questions about Glosa'
topicId: 1044
userId: 155310954
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "nick_hempshall" wrote:
>
> Of course Glo=
sa does have THE GLOSA EDUCATION ORGANISATION GEO which 
> aims TO ADVANCE =
THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN THE LANGUAGE CALLED 
> GLOSA

Can an organiz=
ation that promotes international communication be
relevant without an inte=
rnet/email presence?

Years after leaving the Glosa community, I still can'=
t shake my
addiction to the language. However, I strongly believe that one =
of the
following will have to happen before Glosa can have any chance of
be=
ing widely adopted:

1. Wendy gets online, and is willing to tweak the lang=
uage
2. Wendy delegates authority to a person or group who can advance the
=
language, and do effective marketing
3. Someone else creates a language bas=
ed on Glosa, but with a new
name, and advances it.

I tried to do (3) with =
my Glo, and then Tavo. With three new helper 
words, and some vocabulary st=
reamlining, I was pretty happy with
the results. But around that time, I co=
ncluded that LFN was "good
enough", and abandoned my efforts. 

Since then,=
 LFN has grown in some ways that I don't like, and I have
realized that I p=
refer Greek roots over Latin. If I were to get back
to it, I would revert T=
avo back to when it was based on Glosa
vocabulary. Glosa+MinorReforms still=
 seems like the ideal IAL to me. 

Kevin



