---
authorName: David
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;David&quot; &lt;daveyporter@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDEwOTRCRUFGMDA2QjRGRjk4RTJFNUU5MDIwMDRBRjExQGRhdmlkPg==
headers.referencesHeader: PGdnOTlhais4ZXU0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1072
msgSnippet: Hello Kevin,   I was pleased to know that you are still an enthusiast
  of Glosa as I support your views on the vocabulary and am in the process of working
nextInTime: 1073
nextInTopic: 1076
numMessagesInTopic: 10
postDate: '1227371447'
prevInTime: 1071
prevInTopic: 1071
profile: ecclesonc
replyTo: LIST
senderId: MP_7_k2c_fy2MzTCw_bRVvJJrrbVynpyKVPl6DvicrSa-lEaogjAPg7TnxrLRsj7F5UPrbH6Tw0XYu_PxJyjTBAozB_2cVKqrw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Hello, I have some questions about Glosa'
topicId: 1044
userId: 335799855
---




  Hello Kevin,   I was pleased to know that you are still an enthusiast of Glosa as I support your views on the vocabulary and am in the process of working through your 4000+ English to Glosa dictionary.   Did you ever complete it - or have you an interest in completing it?   I regret that the website is no longer available.
         David.
       

  --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "nick_hempshall" wrote:
  >
  > Of course Glosa does have THE GLOSA EDUCATION ORGANISATION GEO which 
  > aims TO ADVANCE THE EDUCATION OF THE PUBLIC IN THE LANGUAGE CALLED 
  > GLOSA

  Can an organization that promotes international communication be
  relevant without an internet/email presence?

  Years after leaving the Glosa community, I still can't shake my
  addiction to the language. However, I strongly believe that one of the
  following will have to happen before Glosa can have any chance of
  being widely adopted:

  1. Wendy gets online, and is willing to tweak the language
  2. Wendy delegates authority to a person or group who can advance the
  language, and do effective marketing
  3. Someone else creates a language based on Glosa, but with a new
  name, and advances it.

  I tried to do (3) with my Glo, and then Tavo. With three new helper 
  words, and some vocabulary streamlining, I was pretty happy with
  the results. But around that time, I concluded that LFN was "good
  enough", and abandoned my efforts. 

  Since then, LFN has grown in some ways that I don't like, and I have
  realized that I prefer Greek roots over Latin. If I were to get back
  to it, I would revert Tavo back to when it was based on Glosa
  vocabulary. Glosa+MinorReforms still seems like the ideal IAL to me. 

  Kevin



   

-- 
I am using the free version of SPAMfighter.
We are a community of 5.6 million users fighting spam.
SPAMfighter has removed 3130 of my spam emails to date.
Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len

The Professional version does not have this message


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


