---
authorName: shearzar
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;shearzar&quot; &lt;ken.scherer@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGdnYTJtaytxa2tnQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1073
msgSnippet: 'Please excuse any dumb questions I ask. Why not use hyphenated suffixes
  for verbs? Is it correct to say, Un andra pa veni domi. [The man did arrive home]? '
nextInTime: 1074
nextInTopic: 1075
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1227394580'
prevInTime: 1072
prevInTopic: 0
profile: shearzar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: BlHlfCAsQZF41IDvlgarUzTZMkG8FqkFjqdfx_Gzucmq0FwhtZsA8bxNWCe5voDlR5I0nWbkrFcnCeanZviQ2UivFygphwX4psJH
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: Suffixes, Religio-do, & Little
topicId: 1073
userId: 340106237
---

Please excuse any dumb questions I ask.  

Why not use hyphenated suffixes =
for verbs?

Is it correct to say, "Un andra pa veni domi." [The man did arr=
ive 
home]? 
How about using pa as a verb suffix to say, "Un andra veni-pa =
domi." 
[The man arrived home]?

Instead of, "U ju-fe pa ki a fe domi." [Th=
e girl did go to her home], 
how about saying, "U ju-fe, ki-pa domi." [The =
girl went home]?

What about replacing, "Un agri-pe pa spe ke id sio pluvi.=
" [The 
farmer did hope that it would rain] with "Un agri-pe spe-pa pro 
pl=
uvi." [The farmer hoped for rain.]?

"Seminar 1 in Glosa" has the following=
 phrase: "plu tri celero fo-
sono rubi vagona", "the three fast, loud red c=
ars".   It appears to 
me that saying, "tri fo-sono e tako rubi vagona-plu"=
 [three loud and 
fast red cars] is a more simple.  
   
Has anyone conside=
red simplify Glosa with suffixes? Perhaps such a 
revision could be called =
"Glosa-nu" [Glosa Now]. Is it not illogical 
to allow hyphenated words for =
noun building but not for "verb 
making"?  E.g., why can't "ran" and "runni=
ng" be "dromo-pa" 
and "dromo-du"? 

Okay, enough about verb suffixes.  

I=
s anyone familiar with the Ceqli (Cheng-lee) conlang?  I love the 
simple s=
entences it uses!  Glosa sentences could easily be 
simplified.  E.g., shor=
ten, "Mi don ad un equs id bibe." [I give to 
the horse its drink] into, "M=
i don equs bibe." [I give horse 
drink].     

Here's a religious question,=
 sort of:

Why does Glosa prefer to use the word "religio-do for "church", =
but 
uses the word "sinagoga" for "synagogue"?  The word Church comes from =

the Greek word kyriake ("Lord's house), and the New Testament refers 
to t=
he Church as the "Ekklesia" (Assembly).  "English-Glosa Mega" has 
the foll=
owing for "church": "religio-do 1++; eklesia 1+G, kiriako 
G".  

Since Chu=
rch, Synagogue, and Mosque are synonymous with Christianity, 
Judaism, and =
Islam, respectively, I submit that it would be best to 
only use "religio-d=
o" when asking a person what house of worship he 
or she attends.  Christia=
ns could easily perceive their church being 
called religio-do as an insult=
.  

On Page 14 of "18 Steps to Fluency in Euro-Glosa", Exercise 3 
has, "P=
lu kanta-pe pa kanta in religio-do." for "The choir sang in 
the church."  =
I submit that it would be best to say, "Plu kanta-pe pa 
kanta in eklesia."=
 

Better yet, since there is the Church of Satan, the Church of 
Scientolo=
gy, and other so-called churches that are not specifically 
Christian, I li=
ke to refer to a Christian religio-do as a "Kristo-
do."  

Oh, and on Page=
 24, Step 7, we find, "Fe pa ki ad-in religio-do" 
for "She went into the t=
emple."  What?  According to English-Glosa 
Mega,  the Glosa word for "temp=
le" is "templa", not "religio-do." 

Now, for a humorous conclusion.  Raise=
d in a very conservative 
Christian family, I confess my puritanical aversi=
on to the Glosa word 
for "little."  I couldn't believe it when I saw the G=
losa title 
for "Little Red Riding Hood" (Pusi Robi Toga).   I thought, sur=
ely 
this is a joke.  Then I came across "Pusi Glosa Kristo-bibli"Bilia"!  =

What on Earth, I thought, are these people perverts?!   How am I 
supposed=
 to learn Glosa if I cannot use the preferred Glosa word for 
little?  Why =
don't they use "mikro" or some other Greek word?   

After searching the Gr=
eek in my Strong's Bible Concordance, I 
couldn't find how Glosa got its wo=
rld for little!  Then I discovered 
that it's not Greek, it's from teh Lati=
n word pusillus.  What ever. I 
guess I'm okay with it now. Mi pa u pusi ko=
nfusi. (I hope I wrote 
that correctly) LOL.  




