---
authorName: Kevin Smith
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kevin Smith&quot; &lt;lingua@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDEwOTRCRUFGMDA2QjRGRjk4RTJFNUU5MDIwMDRBRjExQGRhdmlkPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGdnYnJsdis0ZmdqQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1076
msgSnippet: '... I don t anticipate having the time/energy to work on Glo/Tavo for
  the forseeable future. I would be happy to answer any questions about it, though. '
nextInTime: 1077
nextInTopic: 1077
numMessagesInTopic: 10
postDate: '1227452927'
prevInTime: 1075
prevInTopic: 1072
profile: kevinbsmith
replyTo: LIST
senderId: FeD8NCg2GJKeUoTk-EL6PJIcdlzwnAcu4g0DPcw1z2p4tO8iETe-k0Aj4UIf6h0COSlI-8VrGl59hZJjCAV-Ttgbs66zvQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Hello, I have some questions about Glosa'
topicId: 1044
userId: 155310954
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "David"  wrote:
>   Hello Kevin,   I was =
pleased to know that you are still an 
> enthusiast of Glosa as I support y=
our views on the vocabulary 
> and am in the process of working through you=
r 4000+ English 
> to Glosa dictionary.   Did you ever complete it - or hav=
e you 
> an interest in completing it?   I regret that the website is 
> no=
 longer available.

I don't anticipate having the time/energy to work on Gl=
o/Tavo for the
forseeable future. I would be happy to answer any questions =
about it,
though.

Fortunately, the "wayback machine" archived my site at v=
arious points.
I would consider this one to be about the best starting poin=
t for
continuing my work, as it is shortly before I began switching from
Gl=
osa/Greek vocabulary toward Latin roots:

http://web.archive.org/web/200206=
24123435/www.qualitycode.com/glosa/glo-intro.eng.html

However, the followi=
ng details are missing from that page, for some
reason. "ca" is really impo=
rtant, but I'm not sure if I would keep
"sa" and "he":

 And I added a few =
words, where Glosa just didn't have any word that
was even close. Examples:=


* ca - To start a verb phrase without specifying pa/nu/fu. For
example: m=
i ca gresi. (I walk.)
* exflu - Outflow, output.
* he - Begins an imperativ=
e sentence, where there is no subject, and
where place is not appropriate. =
For example: he, vora! (Eat!)
* influ - Inflow, input.
* pasada - Past. Sin=
ce Glo makes a clear distinction between particles
and substantives, pa cou=
ld not serve as both a past tense verb marker
and also as a time indicator.=
 Glosa had words for present and future
(presenti and futuri) but none for =
past.
* sa - Indicates posession, like the English 's. Glosa treats the
pos=
essive case as an adjective, which can lead to ambiguity. Here is
an exampl=
e of how sa would be used in Glo: mi sa gina sibi es ci. (My
sister is here=
).
* susta - Sustain, support, uphold. Glosa used tena for this, but tena
h=
as too many meanings. 

Kevin



