---
authorName: sydpidd@aol.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: sydpidd@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGM3MC4zNmZhOTc0Mi4zNjVjNDM3NUBhb2wuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1079
msgSnippet: my suffixes could be temporary ......  what i was trying to do was  connect
  glosa, esperanto and slovio. so far as i can gather, the two latter use suffixes
nextInTime: 1080
nextInTopic: 1080
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1227549045'
prevInTime: 1078
prevInTopic: 1078
profile: sydpidd1926
replyTo: LIST
senderId: MzMoM1Hbb3GycJNEkPHZ-Q2AMOaIDWpvHShS--btjKf5bMfwEDse2Dhoxa07sWRWfMmYJ_CT
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] My Suffixes are Better than Yours :-)'
topicId: 1073
userId: 137587403
---

my suffixes could be temporary ......  what i was trying to do was  connect 
 
glosa, esperanto and slovio. so far as i can gather, the two latter use 
 
suffixes where glosa might use u plu etc. they are separate words so that  it 
 
easier to get the stems and look them up in the dictionary. i am  suggesting  
 
that they separate the suffixes so that a glosa-pe could work in the other 
 
two. "bird o" rather than "birdo" i am suggesting too that glosa-pe insert 
 
the suffixes and seperately "plu avi oj " so if i want as many people as 
 
possible to read my drivel, i could fairly easily write it in glosa+ 
 
esperanto and slovia. 
 
plu mi  sufix-oj  sio es-u brevi-tem ........ qo mi pa tenta-is  akti-i pa 
 
es-is   te  nexi-i glosa-on esperanto-on slovio-on. ab qo mi  posi kolekti-
 
as, u bi-aj tima-oj du uti-is plu sufix-ojn qo-lo glosa-o  posi uti-us  "u/ 
 
plu".  mu es-as plu separa-ajn verba-ojn so id es-as  ma facile  te detekti-i 
 
plu kauli-on e detekti mu in u lexiko-on.  
 
using the esperanto suffixes( sufficees?)which i think, are better than my 
 
own:- 
indicsing=o  indicplur=oj infosing=on  infoplur=ojn  modindicsing=a  
 
modindicplur=aj modinfosing=an   modinfoplur=ajn
infopast=is      infopres=as    infofuture=os  infinitive =i    jussne=u???  
 
conditional=us  
 
if we try writing to many people in western and eastern europe the latter 
 
might be more comfortable with the suffixes, the former could ignore them 
 
the writer would include both. if you were writing to one person only the 
 
suffixes may be included or omitted altogether


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


