---
authorName: shearzar
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;shearzar&quot; &lt;ken.scherer@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGdnbGk5aStldjQ1QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1083
msgSnippet: 'I am still waiting on my 18 steps Glos book. It s on back order. Something
  funny to share: Out of curiosity, I checked out Mondlango, a revision of Esperanto. '
nextInTime: 1084
nextInTopic: 1084
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1227770994'
prevInTime: 1082
prevInTopic: 0
profile: shearzar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: BRtsvL5OpytaVwH6Q4ZNIRQ9eej40bpKvV4Lm3uLcHBg1LKuxsFeBUPEO6c8JxjwNah4zS1BWs7u6y1V4s8eKO5h6ZHjfVwfpHDN
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: Mondlango is not better than Glosa
topicId: 1083
userId: 340106237
---

I am still waiting on my 18 steps Glos book. It's on back order. 

Somethin=
g funny to share: Out of curiosity, I checked out Mondlango, 
a revision of=
 Esperanto. 

A few Esperanto articles (one of which calls Mondlango an "an=
tecesor 
del globish"), caused me to think Mondlango is an Adjuvilo-like 
E=
speranto joke.  
I spent hours looking in vain for info about He Yafu. Sure=
ly, the 
creator of a language that purportedly has tens of thousands of 
s=
peakers since its creation in 2002 would have his picture Online. Is 
He Ya=
fu an Esperanto pun for "Hey, you fool"? 
  
On mondlango.com, FAQ #20 says=
, "Mondlango has realized the dream 
of 'one symbol one sound' both theoret=
ically and practically." Yet, 
we find on the Alphabet page the comment, "s=
emivowels: w y. 
Semivowels can be combined with vowels to form diphthongs,=
 such as ay
[ai], ey[ei], oy[oi], aw[au], ow[ou]." 

Websters New World Col=
lege Dictionary 4th Edition says a diphthong 
is, "a complex vowel sound ma=
de by gliding continuously from the 
position for one vowel to that for ano=
ther within the same syllable, 
as (ou) in down."  

Page two of the Alphab=
et on mondlango.com says, "The number of 
syllables in a word is given by t=
he number of vowels." 

Before we even get to Online lesson one, we see tha=
t Mondlango 
comments about one symbol one sound, diphthongs, and one vowel=
 per 
syllable are contradictory! 

I still haven't found an auxlang that I=
 like better than Glosa!! :-)


