---
authorName: shearzar
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;shearzar&quot; &lt;ken.scherer@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQ1MjE5ZmIwMDgxMTI2MjM0M243ODQzODRhZnE5ODUxZWRkNzg1MjdmYzg1QG1haWwuZ21haWwuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGdnbWQzMCtyN3EwQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1085
msgSnippet: It is easy for me to mix grammars. One person s vowel is another s consonant.
  The Ceqli conlang considers L, M, N, Q, and R to be vowels! No wonder I get
nextInTime: 1086
nextInTopic: 1086
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1227798432'
prevInTime: 1084
prevInTopic: 1084
profile: shearzar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 0O8wymjIxKiqpugDX56EJDySxYzFoODA4KMI8lye_AYuxGX9ZUCDqcEH_XR8Yy7M4qRnRVVs8HgO_wsLkK4vzNUwnkyAftgFqdwt
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Mondlango is not better than Glosa'
topicId: 1083
userId: 340106237
---

It is easy for me to mix grammars. One person's vowel is another's 
consona=
nt. The Ceqli conlang considers L, M, N, Q, and R to be 
vowels! No wonder =
I get confused. :-) 

If Mondlango is another Esperanto Adjuvilo, I'm not u=
pset.  That 
would be a great prank. My posts about that are based on my 
h=
ypothesis that "He Yafu", the name of the founder of Mondlango, is 
an Espe=
ranto pun for "Hey, you fool" (or, "Ha! You fool!"?). 

Even if I'm wrong a=
bout Mondlango being an elaborate hoax, its use of 
diphthongs muddies the =
goal of one symbol one sound. I submit that 
the listener would not easily =
determine how to properly spell a word 
with a diphtong in it. But, what ev=
er, I don't care, Glosa words are 
easier to pronounce.  

I want it to be =
all Greek (and Latin) to me. :-)  Glosa is my friend.

Happy Thanksgiving. =
I have to go play nice with the in-laws. :-)

 

--- In glosalist@yahoogrou=
ps.com, "Llu=C3=ADs Batlle" <viriketo@...> wrote:
>
> In esperanto, the nam=
e "vokaloj" (vowels) mean those symbols in the
> set "a,e,i,o,u".
> Althoug=
h "j,=C5=AD" (w,y in your mondlango) have a vowel-like sound 
for "i"
> and=
 "u", they aren't counted in the set named "vokaloj".
> 
> Don't mix gramma=
rs. :)
> 
> Nevertheless, if you are worried with things like those, I gues=
s you
> will find only deception in the world of conlangs. Sooner or later.=

> 
> 2008/11/27, shearzar <ken.scherer@...>:
> > I am still waiting on my =
18 steps Glos book. It's on back order.
> >
> > Something funny to share: O=
ut of curiosity, I checked out 
Mondlango,
> > a revision of Esperanto.
> >=

> > A few Esperanto articles (one of which calls Mondlango 
an "antecesor
=
> > del globish"), caused me to think Mondlango is an Adjuvilo-like
> > Esp=
eranto joke.
> > I spent hours looking in vain for info about He Yafu. Sure=
ly, the
> > creator of a language that purportedly has tens of thousands of=

> > speakers since its creation in 2002 would have his picture 
Online. Is=

> > He Yafu an Esperanto pun for "Hey, you fool"?
> >
> > On mondlango.com=
, FAQ #20 says, "Mondlango has realized the dream
> > of 'one symbol one so=
und' both theoretically and practically." 
Yet,
> > we find on the Alphabet=
 page the comment, "semivowels: w y.
> > Semivowels can be combined with vo=
wels to form diphthongs, such 
as ay
> > [ai], ey[ei], oy[oi], aw[au], ow[o=
u]."
> >
> > Websters New World College Dictionary 4th Edition says a dipht=
hong
> > is, "a complex vowel sound made by gliding continuously from the
>=
 > position for one vowel to that for another within the same 
syllable,
> =
> as (ou) in down."
> >
> > Page two of the Alphabet on mondlango.com says,=
 "The number of
> > syllables in a word is given by the number of vowels."
=
> >
> > Before we even get to Online lesson one, we see that Mondlango
> > =
comments about one symbol one sound, diphthongs, and one vowel per
> > syll=
able are contradictory!
> >
> > I still haven't found an auxlang that I lik=
e better than 
Glosa!! :-)
> >
> >
>



