---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDMwNjI3MTEyNDA3LjExMjg5LnFtYWlsQHdlYjYwMDA0Lm1haWwueWFob28uY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwNjI5MDEyMjM5LjAwNzE2NzE4QHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwNjIyMjIyMDU1LjAwNzA4MjJjQHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
layout: email
msgId: 109
msgSnippet: '... *  A-nu u qestio resta. To qod loka intra u-la diktionari pote na
  detekti u verbi sintaxi ? U problema es gene ge-seduce per qod na vide.  Plu verbi
  eqa u'
nextInTime: 110
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1056813759'
prevInTime: 108
prevInTopic: 102
profile: bliminus_107_ssaass
replyTo: LIST
senderId: fBzxWcIwdvro5fFMQSXbJD0_9U8hwXrWdS6NXFc1dMLJxq1CM2QdPVftolF4LC7tBMnwUFpdD8NbBPbkrCOl2KVG87uFFh9ASTFqBdVd3rafNwcrkg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Verba-Taxo alo Verba-Semani'
topicId: 86
userId: 147970330
---

At 04:24 AM 6/27/03 -0700, Nick Hempshall grafo:
>A quote from Glosa 6000 (3rd edition, page 7) which
>may or may not(?) relate to this question (i.e. is
>Glosa a semantically based language?)
>
*  A-nu u qestio resta.
   To qod loka intra u-la diktionari pote na detekti u verbi "sintaxi"?
   U problema es gene ge-seduce per qod na vide.  Plu verbi eqa u solidi
mero de lingua, e na pote stude mu ad u fini de tem; sed, sine puta de plu
spacia inter plu verbi, na fu nuli-tem komence de loka bi verbi par aleli.

  [Still, the question remains.
   At what place in the dictionary can we find the word, "syntax"?
   The problem is getting seduced by what we see.  Words are the solid part
of language, and we can study them to the end of time; but, without
thinking about the spaces between the words, we will never start to put two
words together.]
    
   Glosa eqa u lingua; in qi il es signifi pro semani - iso u diktionari
pretende.  Anti-co, ko id flexi-ra, e u posi de u verbi; qi representa u
koncepa, monstro ali faceta de u semani de u partikulari koncepa, so na
nece habe u sistem; qi sto plu koncepa ex colapse in u kumu. 

   [Glosa is a language in which there is significance for semantics, as
the dictionary claims.  However, with its flexability, and the possibility
of a word, which represents a concept, showing any aspect of the meaning of
the particular concept, so we need to have a system, which stops the
concepts from collapsing in a heap.] 
   
   Plu hetero lingua habe plu muta, ge-nima 'inflexi,' e plu-ci muta akti
iso plu nima-bileta; qi indika qod faceta de u semani u partikulari verbi
monstro.  Alterno-co, plu Glosa verbi habe nuli muta, e, sine plu flexi,
alo nima-bileta, na nece gene plu semani de plu verbi ex mu ordina.

  [The other languages have changes, called "inflections," and these
changes act as labels, which indicate what aspect of the meaning a
particular word shows.  Alternatively, Glosa words have no change, and,
without the changes, or labels, we need to get the meaaning of the words
from their order.]

   Tem Ron Clark tenta promoti Glosa iso u semani lingua, u reali faktu es:
uno-pe nece habe kompleti ski de u semani de plu verbi an uti, ka an habe
nuli nima-bileta te don auxi ad an.  Kron mi pa dice de Glosa iso u
"Koncepa Lingua" a plu membra de u Conlang Lista, mu respnde: mi ne pote
dice u-la.

  [While Ron Clark tries to promote Glosa as a semantic language, the real
fact is: one needs to have complete knowlege of the words he uses, because
he has no labels to give him help.  When I spoke of Glosa as a "concept
Language" to the members of the Conlang List, they replied: I cannot say
that.] 

   So, dice de u lingua iso 'koncepa ge-basi' alo 'semani ge-basi' aktuali
habe nuli semani.  Holo lingua habe 'semani ge-basi,' bi u Ge-inflexi
lingua e u No-ge-inflexi lingua.  U difere ko Glosa sistema de semani:
uno-pe nece ski u korekti verbi pro u koncepa an vo expresi.  An habe nuli
inflexi te dona facili ad an.

  [Thus, speaking of a language as 'concept-based' or 'semantically-based'
actually has no meaning.  All language is 'semantically-based,' both
Infleced Language and Non-inflected Language.  The difference, with Glosa's
system of semantic, is one must know the correct word for the concept he
wishes to express.  He has no inflection to make it easy for him.]

   Un interese ra: oligo persona puta de plu verbi mu uti, pre mu dice.  U
majorita de homi gene sko de lingua ex copi plu hetero-pe: fo oligo persona
kogita de plu verbi, e de mu eso semani, pre uti mu.  Kron Ron dice de u
"semani ge-basi lingua" an dice ad u mo pro centi de homi; qi pote imagina
plu verbi iso plu koncepa basi, e ne iso plu solidi objecti.

  [The interesting thing is few people think of the words they use, before
they speak.  The majority of mankind learn language from copying others;
very few people think of the words, and their internal meaning, before
using them.  When Ron speaks of a "semantically-based language" he speaks
to the one percent of mankind, who can imagine the words as concept bases,
and not as solid objects.]
 
>Each Glosa word stands for only one concept. In the
>Old Languages, whole battalions of words looking and
>sounding different, may yet contain a large element of
>common meaning. In Glosa, which is a semantically
>based language, this common meaning is made explicit.
>
*  Sed solo a plu-pe; qi pote kogita uti abstrakti puta.

  [But only to people who can think using abstract thought.]

   Alterno, na habe plu verbi; na pote vide.  Plu-ci habe nuli semani de
mu-se.
U semani es intra u menta, e so ne pote es u sistema de gramatika.

  [Alternatively, we have the words we can see.  These are not meaningful
of themselves.  Meaning is in the mind, and so, cannot be a system of
grammar.] 

   In brevi, sintaxi pote es ge-vide, e don a na u sistema de gramatika;
ge-basi in u relatio inter plu verbi.  Te logi gramatika, u semani de plu
verbi habe minor signifi, tem mu funktio don u struktura de lingua. 

   Mo-di na fu posi habe u gramatika de semani, sed ne nu. 

  [In brief, syntax can be seen, and gives us a system of grammar, which is
based on the the relationship between the words.  In order to understand
grammar, the meaning of the words has minor significance, while their
function gives the structure of language.

   One day, we will possibly have a grammar of semantics, but not now.]

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell


