---
authorName: Kevin Smith
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kevin Smith&quot; &lt;lingua@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGdrdWdjbStiOXNnQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGdrdm1wYys0aG45QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1104
msgSnippet: Several years ago, I learned Sona well enough to comfortably carry on
  an email conversation with a man in Russia. I figured at that point in time I was
nextInTime: 1105
nextInTopic: 1105
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1232297580'
prevInTime: 1103
prevInTopic: 1102
profile: kevinbsmith
replyTo: LIST
senderId: IkK_z1PJYOIo2EMyfstQ3F15yXr8cL6hyKuJfch2zpnfZdooPCkb7OapmLeDqYI4a84Id-86ZmuxZdx3LKEtCVMWsaHxUw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: What do you think of the Sona language (Glosa vs Sona)?'
topicId: 1102
userId: 155310954
---

Several years ago, I learned Sona well enough to comfortably carry on
an em=
ail conversation with a man in Russia. I figured at that point in
time I wa=
s probably the world's leading authority on Sona.

It's a very clever idea,=
 and a reasonable initial implementation. I
appreciated that it was not jus=
t European, putting it in the same
category as loglan/lojban and ceqli. And=
 I feel strongly that small
vocabularies are better than large ones, so the=
 small number of roots
is appealing.

However, as you start to analyze the =
roots carefully, there are some
gaps and confusing parts, as well as some s=
exism (consider the roots
most closely associated with the words for "male"=
 and "female"). 

The agglutinative aspect ends up being something of a che=
at. Quoting
from the Sona book: 

------
...the corresponding S. aki `swift=
' produces akizu `horse' =3D "swift
animal" =3D equus. It is true that "swi=
ft animal" would not necessarily
indicate `horse'; it might be a hare, a gr=
eyhound, a buck. But it has
become arbitrarily fixed in this sense, just as=
 the English word
`swift' has been fixed to name a cartain bird.
------

So=
 in effect, akizu has become another root, because its meaning
cannot be de=
rived from just the roots. 

Similarly, consider the word "toreno", whose r=
oots literally mean
was-straight-vehicle. By convention, this is the word f=
or "train", so
really it becomes yet another root. 


Also, the limited sou=
nd patterns seemed like they might be difficult
to distinguish in spoken co=
mmunication, and would lead to typos having
more dramatic effects. Having c=
onsistent word patterns seems like a
great idea, but has some downsides as =
well.

I considered creating an improved version of Sona, but ended up
deci=
ding that Glosa would be a better starting point for my own goals.
If someo=
ne created an improved Sona, I could imagine that it might
become my new fa=
vorite IAL/conlang.

Kevin



