---
authorName: Liogab11
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Liogab11 &lt;liogab11@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDE2NjE3MC43NDc1Mi5xbUB3ZWI1MDMxMi5tYWlsLnJlMi55YWhvby5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1136
msgSnippet: I can make the revisions after the first translation attempt. Leo Apostle
  s Creed I believe in God, the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth and in
nextInTime: 1137
nextInTopic: 1137
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1233468160'
prevInTime: 1135
prevInTopic: 0
profile: liogab11
replyTo: LIST
senderId: EME-FfoEcvwOVwa0vXGehNdVTOHr-tw0K1QN6bmPFFT0E3odtqE3TWzhFG33xHBMkNsjMYuMWSyDl8BGqMqTVVc81bM
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: In English...
topicId: 1136
userId: 182336189
---

I can make the revisions after the first translation attempt.
Leo

Apostle'=
s Creed
I believe in God, the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth =
and
in Jesus Christ, His only Son, our Lord; Who was conceived by the Holy
=
Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was
crucifi=
ed, died, and was buried, He descended into hell; the third day
He arose ag=
ain from the dead; He ascended into Heaven, sitteth at the
right hand of Go=
d, the Father Almighty, from thence He shall come to
judge the living and t=
he dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit, the Holy
Catholic Church, the commun=
ion of saints, the forgiveness of sins, the
resurrection of the body, and l=
ife everlasting. Amen.

Glory Be
Glory be to the Father, the Son, and the H=
oly Spirit.=C2=A0 As it was in the
beginning is now and ever shall be, worl=
d without end.=C2=A0 Amen.

Hail Mary
Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is=
 with thee, blessed art thou
amongst women and blessed is the fruit of thy =
womb, Jesus. Holy Mary
Mother of God, pray for us sinners now and at the ho=
ur of our death.
Amen.
(hint: Ave, Maria...)



      New Email addresses a=
vailable on Yahoo!
Get the Email name you've always wanted on the new @=
ymail and @rocketmail. 
Hurry before someone else does!
http://mail.promoti=
ons.yahoo.com/newdomains/aa/

[Non-text portions of this message have been =
removed]


