---
authorName: David
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;David&quot; &lt;daveyporter@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PERGREI2NzBGMEVFQzQ2RTc4MzM4NjRGMUQ0MzIzMDlEQGRhdmlkPg==
headers.referencesHeader: PGgxbXFidit0NzB0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1169
msgSnippet: Why indeed! - a multitude of reasons I guess but mainly  lack of commitment;
  i.e. not quite enough enthusiasm and/or having the time for such an enterprise.
nextInTime: 1170
nextInTopic: 1173
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1245671541'
prevInTime: 1168
prevInTopic: 1168
profile: ecclesonc
replyTo: LIST
senderId: OgqLqSqwrF450YyZu4RVZ-axn8aIRxMoaxqlrt8tNKwDmfmrXXJ4E_fWGqSgF1a0uaWXxxlGKL5AhXYuYw_kPcTuaua7fR1I-w
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Is this Yahoo Group dead, I don&#39;t see anyone posting
  here anymore but me?'
topicId: 1164
userId: 335799855
---

Why indeed! - a multitude of reasons I guess but mainly  lack of commitment; i.e. not quite enough enthusiasm and/or having the time for such an enterprise.   Maybe it would be possible, (through the medium of the internet as you suggest), to find others who would be sufficiently keen to exchange ideas on the best way forward and maybe contribute to some form of action.   Should you reply to this post please note that I will not be able to respond until next week.  In answer to your query I live in England....... regards, Davidjp.
---- Original Message ----- 

  From: master1077 
  To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com 
  Sent: Monday, June 22, 2009 3:30 AM
  Subject: [glosalist] Re: Is this Yahoo Group dead, I don't see anyone posting here anymore but me?





  Why can't that day be today? We have Youtube and other media websites on the internet which we can use to spread awareness of Glosa. Why isn't anyone taking advantage of it by making Youtube videos to learn Glosa and the such?

  --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "David" <daveyporter@...> wrote:
  >
  > 
  > Hello Master 1077
  > It is true that there has been very little activity on the Glosalist recently but I think that the language lives on if only because it is probably the best of all auxiliary languages.
  > My last contact with Wendy Ashby was in February of this year when she was recovering from a serious illness and as far as I am aware there is no committee or organisation that is promoting the language at present. Hopefully the time will come when some Glosa enthusiasts will form an association to carry the language forward.
  > With regards, David.
  > 
  > ----- Original Message ----- 
  > From: master1077 
  > To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com 
  > Sent: Sunday, June 21, 2009 5:57 AM
  > Subject: [glosalist] Is this Yahoo Group dead, I don't see anyone posting here anymore but me?
  > 
  > 
  > 
  > 
  > 
  > PLease anyone please respond to this to let me know the this group and the Glosa language is still alive
  > 
  > 
  > 
  > 
  > 
  > -- 
  > I am using the free version of SPAMfighter.
  > We are a community of 6 million users fighting spam.
  > SPAMfighter has removed 3683 of my spam emails to date.
  > Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len
  > 
  > The Professional version does not have this message
  > 
  > 
  > [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
  >



  

-- 
I am using the free version of SPAMfighter.
We are a community of 6 million users fighting spam.
SPAMfighter has removed 3683 of my spam emails to date.
Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfighter.com/len

The Professional version does not have this message


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


