---
authorName: John Braddock
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: John Braddock &lt;fsbd7000@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwNzEwMTIxNDE4LjAwNzE0ZjBjQHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMDMwNzEwMDkxOTIwLjUwMjU4LnFtYWlsQHdlYjQxNjAyLm1haWwueWFob28uY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 120
msgSnippet: WARNING! It s this kind of discourse that ran me and a host of others
  from the IDO group. But have it your(s) way. Looks to me that you who know the language
nextInTime: 121
nextInTopic: 122
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1057828760'
prevInTime: 119
prevInTopic: 119
profile: fsbd7000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: ENAsK27MSlry0XLYQxzY_oI6m-Nxwa6SZ0Z0KGQvrn90C67MfWM61Du0EIRVtjuoUl-4tQS5HEmDUJ1wB2itjqGiI929Q-bm9w
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Translation'
topicId: 118
userId: 143014750
---

WARNING! It's this kind of discourse that ran me and a host of others from the "IDO" group. But have it your(s) way. Looks to me that you who know the language would write some very short human interest pieces in both english and glosa so that we that or new to the language could start learning and submit some short Glosa articles or at least a few sentence to the group. Meanwhile, I like Glosa and am studying it some everyday.
 
John Braddock

Robin Gaskell <drought-breaker@...> wrote:
At 02:37 AM 7/5/03 -0600, Gary miller wrote:
>Dear Robin,
>
>I'm afraid you have missed the point.   ..... my perception of Glosa
differs from yours.
>
*  It would seem that we have two approaches to logic, and are imposing
them on our Glosa sentences.  I would hope that in preparing basic
instruction for Glosa learners, these learners do not end in a quandry over
which way to structure their sentences.

>You have pointed out that Glosa semantics are based more on vocabulary
>than grammar.  What if a Glosa word has a different meaning in my head
>than it has in yours?  Certainly, Glosa words are not yet that clearly
>defined.
>
*  True, the word translation dictionaries of Clark/Ashby and the GID 
result in the user imposing their English-language meaning and usage onto
the Glosa word.  This is less than ideal.
   The sentence, "You have pointed out that Glosa semantics are based more
on vocabulary than grammar." is not immediately understandable to me.
   However, if I try hard, I can see that I percieve words as concept
centres; and these concepts may be presented as actions, things or
descriptions (Verbs, Nouns or Modifiers).
   Actions: An dromo.  An hedo dromo.     Tem dromo, an pa kade.
           [he runs]  [he likes to run]  [while running he fell]
            An pa moti an poda fo celero te dromo ma rapidi.
           [he  moved his legs very quickly in order to run faster]
             
   Things:  An habe u dromo.  Id pa es u boni dromo.  An hedo dromo.
          [he has  a  run]  [it  was  a good  run]  [he likes running]
            U brevi dromo pre prima-vora dona boni sana.
           [a short run before breakfast gives good health]

   Modifiers: U dromo ju-an apare habe fatiga.   Fe habe u dromo nasa.*
    [the running boy appears to have tiredness] [she has a running nose]
           ...        ...    to be tired]          ...     runny   ...
             An pa habe u dromo greso.  Fe dromo greso pasa u domi.
            [he  had   a running walk] [she runningly walks past the h.]

   So the question remains: is the word ~dromo~ one semantic unit - as it
appears to be in the above Glosa, or do the different forms of "run" in
English represent different semantic units?  Must Glosa's semantic
classifications follow those of English?
   And can the 'dromo' in ~An hedo dromo,~ represent two "parts-of-speech"
concurrently ... or, doesn't it matter because Glosa has a different usage
schema from that of English?  Does ~An hedo dromo,~ really have two
meanings, or does this only become a problem when we try to express it in
English, and are forced by English usage, to say it one way, or the other?

   And back to grammar, I thought that the grammar of Glosa was a scheme
for the ordering of words to give the sentence a meaningful structure;
while, at the same time not altering the essential meanings of the words,
which did not change, anyway.  To be blunt, I, like Ron before me, believe
that people intuit the function of the 'concept-word' from its position in
the phrase.

   As I have been understanding it, the dimensions of Semantics and Syntax
are two distinct elements of Glosa, with the idea of "Grammar" being
clearly associated with the Syntax Dimension.

   So I have used the language as if Syntax and Grammar were more or less
synonymous - and more or less 'mechanical - with real understanding coming
from our interpretation of the words .. aided, of course, by their ordering
in the phrases.    

Sending off this first part now: more later.

Robin Gaskell



Yahoo! Groups SponsorADVERTISEMENT

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
glosalist-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com



Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service. 



---------------------------------
Do you Yahoo!?
SBC Yahoo! DSL - Now only $29.95 per month!

[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


