---
authorName: scaramouche_54
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;scaramouche_54&quot; &lt;scaramux@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDkwODIxLjIxMTUxNi41MzgzLjY5NzI3QG1haWxwb3AwOC5kY2EudW50ZC5jb20+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGg2cjF2aytuMGNsQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1215
msgSnippet: 'Excellent idea, Gary! Nice job on the information sheet and poem. Saluta,
  Paul http://glosa-lo.blogspot.com/  ... obviously ... '
nextInTime: 1216
nextInTopic: 1216
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1251019572'
prevInTime: 1214
prevInTopic: 1213
profile: scaramouche_54
replyTo: LIST
senderId: gURv2mOjPlGC0SmFJpLg9tRfQY1Q8vOeTvwEM3RFA_eQo_UXlxrKNDPysf2l2xp4uEwDSkPSkUAZw0gSbF_p1yhYyFtZZkfgsZR6_A
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: New file'
topicId: 1213
userId: 404544638
---

Excellent idea, Gary! Nice job on the information sheet and poem.

Saluta,
Paul

http://glosa-lo.blogspot.com/ <http://glosa-lo.blogspot.com/>


--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "justi.miller" <justi.miller@...>
wrote:
>
> Karo Glosa-pe--
>
> I don't think that any attempt at an International Auxiliary Language
> will survive without strong organization.  I have had an idea--
obviously
> not yet ready-- for an American Glosa Organization (AGO).
>
> The problem with an Internet setup is this--  Computers don't
volunteer
> information.  People will never know about Glosa unless they
specifically
> Google it.  We need to get in their faces just a little, or they'll
never
> notice it.
>
> I foresee an AGO that would be subject to Glosa headquarters in
England,
> have a newsletter, brochures, and campaigns to improve people's
> vocabulary-- something Glosa is very good at.  This might even include
> presentations in schools, taking apart some of the terms the students
use
> in science.  This would be a tax-free organization with president,
> secretary, treasurer.  The organization would be there to respond to
> questions, do public relations, promote Glosa, sell dictionaries, and
> solicit.
>
> I have downloaded a file to the Glosalist site, called ReadGlosa.rtf.
> Feel free to use it if you like and replace my address with your own. 
It
> fits on both sides of a sheet of paper (since it's an .rtf document,
it
> might need a little resizing to work on your printer) and can be
handed
> out to people to read, or left on a table somewhere for people to pick
> up, or mailed.  No, I haven't used it much yet myself-- I'm still
trying
> to come up with some ideas.
>
> Just a daydream of mine.
>
> Saluta,
> _ _
> /.
> /\   Gary
> ##
> ____________________________________________________________
> Click here for great quotes from top international movers!
>
http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL2141/fc/BLSrjpTMAuRqNzsSfMq8LlWmXxGH\
WRtFYF0oA56Si6d8H0kx4CZ7bHlWiSc/
>



[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


