---
authorName: Fernando Rodriguez
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Fernando Rodriguez &lt;gelarseg@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGg4MGtzZitzNjg0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDgwOTMzOC4xMTUzLnFtQHdlYjM5NjA3Lm1haWwubXVkLnlhaG9vLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PGg4MGtzZitzNjg0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1223
msgSnippet: 'HI, I WANT TO LEARN GLOSALIST AND TRANSLATE THE LITTLE PRINCE OF SANII
  EXUPERY IN IT, CAN YOU HELP ME TO LEAR THE LANGUAGE? GREETINGS FROM MEXICO CITY '
nextInTime: 1224
nextInTopic: 1225
numMessagesInTopic: 13
postDate: '1252251672'
prevInTime: 1222
prevInTopic: 1222
profile: gelarseg
replyTo: LIST
senderId: hAGtf7uG5lvz0G6yoCYTksJAHTbACrCN5MKcVHTvpAvym5_aKa8BA2GPeiXjhmoWnPvWSIy9u9OPXzR4v3fowQkYYVoal6SmRvpKVLdTrKj0
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Short Story Translation'
topicId: 1219
userId: 272656887
---

HI, I WANT TO LEARN GLOSALIST AND TRANSLATE THE LITTLE PRINCE OF SANII EXUP=
ERY IN IT, CAN YOU HELP ME TO LEAR THE LANGUAGE?
GREETINGS FROM MEXICO CITY=





________________________________
De: nick_hempshall <nick_hempshall@ya=
hoo.co.uk>
Para: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
Enviado: domingo, 6 de septiembr=
e, 2009 10:35:43
Asunto: [glosalist] Re: Short Story Translation

=A0 
Ci-i=
nfra, u translati de mi. Mi volu kon hedo vi plu komenta .

U gondola-pe

U=
 melano nasa de mi gondola ki glisa trans no-turba aqa de plu canali. U gla=
bro navi fo-funktio tem poli anua. Mode id pa fero plu viagia-pe epi plu aq=
a-via de civita per plu duce-manu de mi plu pre-parenta.

Intra paleo civit=
a, u heli-kata sti feno u aqa u melano tinta banda inter plu eleganti domi =
ex arena-li. Mi fo-spira u fresko aero de vespera.

Qe ali-lo habe ma kali =
de u-ci mira civita de plu canali? Kron u navi kine dulce ad id statio, mi =
pausa te vide ana kon hedo u kresce-skoto urani de Mars.

U fini

--- In gl=
osalist@yahoogrou ps.com, "David" <daveyporter@ ...> wrote:
>
> Hello Garet=
h,
> I reckon that I would be some way down the list of suitable
> translat=
ors for your story but if no one else offers I'll 
> have a go.
> Regards, =
David jp
> 
> 
> ----- Original Message ----- 
> From: garethdjones1 
> To:=
 glosalist@yahoogrou ps.com 
> Sent: Thursday, September 03, 2009 11:44 AM
=
> Subject: [glosalist] Short Story Translation
> 
> 
> Hi all,
> 
> My 100 =
word story 'The Gondolier' has been translated into 21 
> languages, includ=
ing Latin, and is currently being translated 
> into Esperanto. I discovere=
d that fellow author Frank Roger has 
> had some of his stories translated =
into Glosa and I wondered if > anyone would like to have a go at translatin=
g mine?
> 
> Thanks,
> 
> Gareth
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> --
> I am using the free =
version of SPAMfighter.
> We are a community of 6 million users fighting sp=
am.
> SPAMfighter has removed 3822 of my spam emails to date.
> Get the fre=
e SPAMfighter here: http://www.spamfigh ter.com/len
> 
> The Professional v=
ersion does not have this message
> 
> 
> [Non-text portions of this messag=
e have been removed]
>





      Encuentra las mejores recetas en Yahoo! C=
ocina.                       
http://mx.mujer.yahoo.com/cocina/

[Non-text =
portions of this message have been removed]


