---
authorName: John Braddock
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: John Braddock &lt;fsbd7000@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDMwNzE0LjE4MjUwNS4xMjQ0LjAuanVzdGkubWlsbGVyQGp1bm8uY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMDMwNzE1MDkwOTMzLjk4NTI3LnFtYWlsQHdlYjQxNjA5Lm1haWwueWFob28uY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 125
msgSnippet: 'Ave! Plu gratia Gary. I will go the Western Union route. The cost is
  well worth the benifits. A re-vide, John Braddock Gary R Miller '
nextInTime: 126
nextInTopic: 128
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1058260173'
prevInTime: 124
prevInTopic: 124
profile: fsbd7000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: _TkUjFQ2IL3s_v3a_t_3KHEZ05cDUHQkvxbpnL3ZF0QliA1Qkj2_pgAIixVnKpQseNWYJgH39kBnKvCDW6eNb6oCK-Wp7--zfg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Ordering 18 Steps'
topicId: 124
userId: 143014750
---

Ave!
 
Plu gratia Gary. I will go the Western Union route. The cost is well worth the benifits.
 
A re-vide,
 
John Braddock

Gary R Miller <justi.miller@...> wrote: 
Dear John Braddock,

The book _18 Steps_ is available for 8.95 pounds Sterling plus .75
shipping (about 14 US dollars).  Write to:
        Glosa
        PO Box 18
        Richmond
        Surrey TW9 2GE
        ENGLAND

Now comes the bad news:  The United States Postal Service no longer
issues money orders to England.  This means you need to go to Western
Union or a high-class bank to get an international money order.  They'll
convert your dollars to pounds and charge you 20 dollars for it.  I have
not been able to find any better deal on the Internet.  If you call your
local banks or try the Internet yourself, perhaps you can find a better
deal.

Perhaps you could contact Wendy Ashby at the above address and see if she
would take about 13 International Reply Coupons (IRC's, available at any
post office) as payment.  Wendy is a nice lady, but I don't know if the
British post would go for it.

Someday I hope we have an American chapter of Glosa that can order the
books in bulk and ship them within the United States with no need for
currency conversion.  (Having its own contact people and newsletter would
be nice too.)  But for now international money orders will have to do.

Penite e saluta,
_  _
  /.   Gary
#/\#
###

________________________________________________________________
The best thing to hit the internet in years - Juno SpeedBand!
Surf the web up to FIVE TIMES FASTER!
Only $14.95/ month - visit www.juno.com to sign up today!

Yahoo! Groups SponsorADVERTISEMENT

To unsubscribe from this group, send an email to:
glosalist-unsubscribe@yahoogroups.com



Your use of Yahoo! Groups is subject to the Yahoo! Terms of Service. 




---------------------------------
Do you Yahoo!?
SBC Yahoo! DSL - Now only $29.95 per month!

[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


