---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhndXJraSt0MnZ2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1274
msgSnippet: More Worries about Possible Confusions of Glosa Pronouns Karo panto Glosa-ami
  Mi este penite de mi no-feno tem mo-ci meno. Mi a-nu ne sto stude Glosa, iso-kron
nextInTime: 1275
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1261629906'
prevInTime: 1273
prevInTopic: 0
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: q-ga0_6dl02Boy-3Oz0RR_0iLcFGHLFGlPwxY2wCFz6jyOxmxQ1OUlg9M7H-4EFC28RytvjCQvOMayC02gkcNBt1kc5u222A-j0
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: true
title: More Worries about Possible Confusions of Glosa Pronouns
topicId: 1274
userId: 420932182
---

More Worries about Possible Confusions of Glosa Pronouns

Karo panto Glosa-=
ami
Mi este penite de mi no-feno tem mo-ci meno. Mi a-nu ne sto stude Glosa=
, iso-kron mi pa intra-duce Glosa a mo reti-ami de mi, e mi doci Glosa a fe=
. Kausa de mi akti, fe este fo-interese de Glosa e nu-du disci id ex mi. Te=
m mi stude Glosa, mi ankora detekti; in glosa es plura konfusi acide in mi =
infra exempla. Mi spe; plu-la problema fu gene plu boni sati explika e solv=
e! Mi nece uti Englanda-ling e Mondlango te feno plu mini difere inter Glos=
a, Mondlango e Englanda-ling.

About Possible Confusions of Glosa Pronouns
=
We know Glosa is an isolating auxiliary language which means speaking is th=
e simplest to speakers who don't need to consider about any word's part of =
speech, but hearing is not so much  easier to indentify the grammatical rel=
ations among some words near each other in some sentences, speakers have to=
 pay more attention to analyse the words' part of speech in context. 
For e=
xamples:
1.	An auxi fe(he helps her). An auxi-fe (his woman helper).  
both=
 pronounced like the same [anAUxife] BY LISTENING   
Fe bovi(her ox). Fe-bo=
vi(female ox, cow) 
both pronounced like the same [feBOvi] BY LISTENING
We =
listeners will get the two frases like the same sound [anAUxife] because we=
 can't clearly hear some stops and punctuations like " ; : ,  ect." in sent=
ences when speaking fast. How should we listeners correctly identify them t=
wo. [anAUxife] should be thought as "An auxi fe."? or "An auxi-fe.". Or sho=
uld the speaders stress "AN" as [ANAUxife] mearning "An auxi fe." and stres=
s "FE" as [anAUxiFE] mearning "An auxi-fe.". In fact, if we may creat a new=
 pair of affixes, every confusion will disappear easily. New affixes for "a=
n" and "fe" like "and" and "fem". SOURCE:  andro=84=B3an(he, him, his) &=84=
=B3 and(male, man); femina=84=B3fe(she, her, her) &=84=B3 fem (female, woma=
n)  Ex. Auxi-and (man helper), Auxi-fem (women helper) And-bovi(male ox, bu=
ll), Fem-bovi (Female ox, cow); so, An bovi(his ox), Fe bovi (her ox). Ever=
y possible confusion by listening could be resolved easily! 
2.	Na plu stud=
e-pe(Our students), Na; plu stude-pe(We students)    
both fast pronounced =
like the same [napluSTUDEpe] BY LISTENING
We can't clearly hear some stops =
and punctuations like " ; : ,  ect." in sentences when speaking fast. How s=
hould we listeners correctly identify them two. [napluSTUDEpe] should be th=
ought as " Na plu stude-pe "? or " Na; plu stude-pe"? In the beginning, we =
have a resolution which is to express "plu na stude-pe" meaning " our stude=
nts " and " na plu stude-pe" meaning " we students ". What are you Glosalis=
ts' resolutions?



