---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGhoZDducCtxZ2MzQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhoaGJlMCt1cjUxQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1297
msgSnippet: Dear New Friend, Welcome to leanr Glosa! Please visit Glosa s official
  website at http://www.glosa.org/ for learning more about it. Glosa is the easiest
nextInTime: 1298
nextInTopic: 1298
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1262235904'
prevInTime: 1296
prevInTopic: 1295
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: mIaXL5J03zsOlH1_-IiRPR-iRF45q3HhgZ-h0NE7-9bXzawyhLS5zeEnSzBZ_qbsX5tOp2qkhJQoCu9ZT7YsIxEq20stSgN56NM
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Learning Glosa'
topicId: 1295
userId: 420932182
---

Dear New Friend,

Welcome to leanr Glosa! Please visit Glosa's official web=
site at http://www.glosa.org/ for learning more about it.

Glosa is the eas=
iest language containing a lot of filosophy of Chinese grammar and word mak=
ing. I love it quite much, even though I have been discussing a lot of poss=
ible problems due to its simplicity and occasional homonyms of combinations=
. However, I still only support Glosa compared to Mondlango, Esperanto, int=
erlingua, etc.(Esperanto is the hardest aux-lang, I'm often against it!)

I=
n spring of 2004, I first found Mondlango and thought it's better than Espe=
ranto, but still harder due to its remain of hard grammatical forms such as=
 the objective case like mim=3Dme... and the nominal possesive prnoun like =
mias=3Dmine... ), and hard words such as the names of months(Januaro=3DJanu=
rary) and weeks(frido=3Dfriday). I used to discuss and suggest the mondlang=
ists to change them as what Glosa does(meno 1=3DJanuary and Di-penta=3Dfrid=
ay).

Best wishes to you and all Glosalists!
Saluta!
Li Zhenyu
(Ex Beijing,=
 Cina)


 

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "matt_1779" <matt_1779@...> w=
rote:
>
>   I have come to the conclusion that I would like to learn Glosa.=
 It appears that there are several people in this group that a very high pr=
oficiency level.  I would like to know where you learned and what resources=
 are out there for others to learn Glosa.  Can anyone point me in the right=
 direction?
>



