---
authorName: Liogab11
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Liogab11 &lt;liogab11@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGhoaGJlMCt1cjUxQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDE3NTAyLjk2NzY0LnFtQHdlYjUwMzAzLm1haWwucmUyLnlhaG9vLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1298
msgSnippet: 'Saluta Matt! I m afraid there aren t any decent lessons for Glosa. The
  best way is to visit the official website and use the resources there. Good luck!
  ... '
nextInTime: 1299
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1262266067'
prevInTime: 1297
prevInTopic: 1297
profile: liogab11
replyTo: LIST
senderId: aTaW-8tcj_Y7IOGb1B4BxX4pePHv97bWDM-9VHbIS59PNWf3G_HLoz6zGpeMTagKQTcQMVA3Vp-9kdNLgsRXtGdVizA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Learning Glosa'
topicId: 1295
userId: 182336189
---

Saluta Matt!

I'm afraid there aren't any decent lessons for Glosa. The bes=
t way is to visit the official website and use the resources there. Good lu=
ck!

--- On Thu, 31/12/09, Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@...> wrote:

From: =
Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@...>
Subject: [glosalist] Re: Learning Glosa
T=
o: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
Date: Thursday, 31 December, 2009, 1:05 PM



=




=C2=A0



  


    
      
      
      Dear New Friend,



Welcome to =
leanr Glosa! Please visit Glosa's official website at http://www.glosa. org=
/ for learning more about it.



Glosa is the easiest language containing a=
 lot of filosophy of Chinese grammar and word making. I love it quite much,=
 even though I have been discussing a lot of possible problems due to its s=
implicity and occasional homonyms of combinations. However, I still only su=
pport Glosa compared to Mondlango, Esperanto, interlingua, etc.(Esperanto i=
s the hardest aux-lang, I'm often against it!)



In spring of 2004, I firs=
t found Mondlango and thought it's better than Esperanto, but still harder =
due to its remain of hard grammatical forms such as the objective case like=
 mim=3Dme... and the nominal possesive prnoun like mias=3Dmine... ), and ha=
rd words such as the names of months(Januaro=3D Janurary) and weeks(frido=
=3D friday). I used to discuss and suggest the mondlangists to change them =
as what Glosa does(meno 1=3DJanuary and Di-penta=3Dfriday) .



Best wishes=
 to you and all Glosalists!

Saluta!

Li Zhenyu

(Ex Beijing, Cina)



--- =
In glosalist@yahoogrou ps.com, "matt_1779" <matt_1779@. ..> wrote:

>

>   =
I have come to the conclusion that I would like to learn Glosa. It appears =
that there are several people in this group that a very high proficiency le=
vel.  I would like to know where you learned and what resources are out the=
re for others to learn Glosa.  Can anyone point me in the right direction?
=

>





    
     

    
    


 



  






      Get your preferred Emai=
l name!
Now you can @... and @.... 
http://mail.promotions=
.yahoo.com/newdomains/aa/

[Non-text portions of this message have been rem=
oved]


