---
authorName: myaleee n
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;myaleee n&quot; &lt;myaleee@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhpdDNmOCs2bmoxQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1338
msgSnippet: Ave, Karo Miller! Mi fo amo gene panto   nova-grama de plu glosa nota
  te lekto mi poesi e pan-ra de hetero-pe! Changes can be emotional and chaotic, which
nextInTime: 1339
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1263669544'
prevInTime: 1337
prevInTopic: 0
profile: myaleee
replyTo: LIST
senderId: XkfWnFB1F2fD2lTPwJdTQs2TS3bDIGNACL8GnHW_2ZNR_XRYp-WTNmVA3r5a_cF2xC6E32bVNGtSIC7sJqAnMXT52M3xQg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: yes we can
topicId: 1338
userId: 288947930
---

Ave, Karo Miller!
Mi fo amo gene panto   nova-grama de "plu glosa nota" te =
lekto mi poesi e pan-ra de hetero-pe!

Changes can be emotional and chaotic=
, which only leads to harming the simplicity  and clarity of the language!
=
But change and improvement to a language is greatly useful if done with con=
sensus of many glosists and approved finally by Sra Ashby(or other)!
Refusa=
l to change leads to a rigid language with flawed features: look at esperan=
to, Fundamento is unalterable: you accept ugly words like sciencisto , scii=
gi, malmultekosta, and "havas multajn florojn" accordance of adjective!
Cha=
nge can be done slowly  as in lingua franca nova:few changes were done to g=
rammar slowly and carefully, but alot of new words and word changes is bein=
g done continuously! Result: LFN reaches perfection now(very beautiful, cle=
ar, expressive, more so because of CHANGES). Mr Boeree the creater refuses =
and accepts ideas, while  controlling the decision, unlike glosa.

All lang=
uages differentiate " the book, a book "; why "u" for both?
why un andro no=
t u andro, since 2  adjacent vowels occur galore already in dictionary eg m=
a-amo, ge-elekta etc etc? Better use ONE article :le(the) and un(a book), i=
n one form!

All languages have suffix for plural, why ugly plu before and =
far from noun ? u plu boni e grandi andro e gina: better use "sa"(or other =
2-letter suffix)le boni e grandi andro sa e gina sa!


Youtube and wikipedi=
a succeeded because it used talents of people(i.e user generated!), LFN is =
also a user gererated language and glosa can be so also! believe me change =
is easy!!!

I would be grateful if you let Sra Ashby know of my suggestions=
!

Penite de vexa



