---
authorName: letmein6464
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;letmein6464&quot; &lt;letmein6464@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhrMjQ1dSs1MjJvQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1355
msgSnippet: I m making a Glosa based language but instead of the Greek roots, it s
  based completely of Latin or it s derived languages (Spanish, Italian, French,
nextInTime: 1356
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1264882686'
prevInTime: 1354
prevInTopic: 0
profile: letmein6464
replyTo: LIST
senderId: sE1Amh9Kdru_RbiBfsgGKLFW0KGeyTJtNYNOWTz2jWJc1bJSgfCfWUkChsEV9obuzcvb_yZD1od2HBy1pIV3TaFaf-JVBsqwu0LEXw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: A Completely Latin Glosa (A Glosa Based Language)
topicId: 1355
userId: 405026011
---

I'm making a Glosa based language but instead of the Greek roots, it's base=
d completely of Latin or it's derived languages (Spanish, Italian, French, =
Portuguese, etc.). The reason for this is because it will be easier for a  =
Latin language speaker to pick up. By the way, Spanish alone is understood =
(on some level) by one in twenty people in the world. Imagine when includin=
g similar languages such as Portuguese, Galician, or even the sort of simil=
ar Italian, Catalan or the other Latin based languages such as French or Ro=
manian.

Also, Spanish is spoken in about 21 countries, French in 28, and F=
rench is also one of the most spoken 2nd languages. Another good thing abou=
t Latin languages is that many words end in a vowel, there are hardly any f=
inal consonants (except in French). In this Glosa based language it is stri=
ctly Optional [Consonant-Vowel-Optional N]. There is never a consonant clus=
ter or final except for 'N'.

Another reason for this is that many internat=
ional/scientific/Germanic words comes from Latin.

nullify comes from Latin=
 "Nullus" which is "Nulo" in this Glosa based language.

omnipresent has it=
's root from Latin's "omni" meaning "all". In this Glosa based language it =
because "omi".

Benefits of learning this language:

* as a positive effect=
 on intellectual growth
* enrich and enhance mental development
* make a fl=
exibility in thinking
* increase sensitivity to language
* enhance your lis=
tening
* improve your understanding of your native western language 
* pick=
 up Romance/Latin languages faster  
* have 157 points higher on the SAT's =
than those who didn't learn
* have a better understanding of English word o=
rigins


