---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGhwZGtoaCsxNjBtQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhwZWc5aSs4ZXMxQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1392
msgSnippet: Dear Oleg, Welcome to the Glosalist Group! I m (Mr.)Li Zhenyu, 32 years
  old, from Beijing China. I have been learning Glosa since last November. I have
  been
nextInTime: 1393
nextInTopic: 1396
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1270531186'
prevInTime: 1391
prevInTopic: 1391
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: j_f230CGz7zPEwS-Irif2pTHPWw2exrZ2NABX6bv6Jv6bs9qA3InXc2vxK_5h4ICCl8jZo1P9n8gQtmE11QHC4JSR2gXwoq4Z8o
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Hello, estimataj Glosa-lingvanoj!'
topicId: 1391
userId: 420932182
---

Dear Oleg,
Welcome to the Glosalist Group! I'm (Mr.)Li Zhenyu, 32 years old=
, from Beijing China. I have been learning Glosa since last November. 
I ha=
ve been thinking Glosa's grammar is the easiest in speaking compared to oth=
er languages including auxlangs. Esperanto is the most difficult in my opin=
ion among all auxlangs grammatically.Mondlango is easier than Esperanto in =
grammar.

About Pronunciation
Basically, all your examples are right!
a=3D =
[a] in French, German, Spanish, Italian, Russian, Chinese, Japanese, Korean=
, etc.[^] is also ok.
e=3D[better like "gEt" in American English or the big=
ger "E" in Italian] Because it'll be clearer.
o=3D[better like "off" in Ame=
rican English or the bigger O in Italian] Because it'll be clearer.
i=3D[ee=
] need
u=3D[oo] food

Plesas add my MSN: lizhenyu_god@... for more =
instant communication.
Saluta!
Li Zhenyu

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com,=
 "topdeboo" <topdeboo@...> wrote:
>
> My name is Oleg, I live in Moscow, Ru=
ssia. One of my hobbies is Esperanto, and I'm a committed supporter of the =
idea of introducing an international auxillary language throughout the worl=
d. Not long ago I came across Glosa and it seemed a very interesting langua=
ge to me, so I decided to make an attempt at mastering it. I've just begun =
studying the manual "18 Steps to Fluency in Glosa", but have got some quest=
ions already. 
> 
> I would be very grateful if someone could check whether=
 I understood the pronunciation (and stress placement especially) of the fo=
llowing words correctly (I used the ASCII Phonetic Alphabet for english pro=
nunciation described at http://www.antimoon.com/how/pronunc-ascii.htm):
> 
=
> televisio [telev'isio]
> ciana     [tSi'ana]
> gestio    ['gestio]
> leuk=
o     [le'uko]
> lingua    [l'ingua]
> sue       ['sue]
> piano     [pi'^no=
]
> anua      ['^nu^]
> viagia    [vi'^gi^]
>  
> Thank you in advance,
> O=
leg
>



