---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDg3MzgyOS40OTA1NS5xbUB3ZWIxMTE0MTYubWFpbC5ncTEueWFob28uY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhwaHJ0ais3ZzNvQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1403
msgSnippet: Dear Mr. Myaleee, In my heart, Glosa and Mondlango are the most advantaged
  auxlang in the world. As we knew, Everything has two sides-- merits and
nextInTime: 1404
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1270641395'
prevInTime: 1402
prevInTopic: 1397
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: fuylmd6r2hxTrvidBfBa0UhHsxXW1beyq9jQdJC5xitmVugkKxdRRCarknz6NO7CzVkeOcRzTGbWDU0l-W-zS1NNO7y_WHgfeNM
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: glosa room'
topicId: 1394
userId: 420932182
---

Dear Mr. Myaleee,
In my heart, Glosa and Mondlango are the most advantaged =
auxlang in the world. As we knew, Everything has two sides-- merits and sho=
rtcomings.

In Grammar
The two languages have their own characteristic with=
 contrary ideas in grammar.  For Mondlango, it remains almost every word sh=
owing its grammatical form in the word end, which can more easily be identi=
fied its grammatical funtion in sentences without any doubt, but meanwhile =
speakers have to pay more attention on those forms. Contrarily, Glosa gives=
 up those apparent forms by using some short mechanics to set in sentences =
for indicating the function of the words before and after them. Every word'=
s form doesn't change and will be easy for computerisation precedure. By th=
is way, Glosa has to be used in smaller frases for clearer structures for h=
uman's correct understanding. Otherwise, it'll be hard to know what is what=
. inspite of that, I occasionally found some frases possibly not too clear =
in structure and meaning. Exp: Qo akti? The title of Glosa film. I first un=
derstood it as "What act or action(Mondlango:Kia akto or akteco)?" then "wh=
at acts(Mondlango:Kio faran)?". At last I got to know it means "What to do?=
" till I found its English translation in the relative article. The same si=
tuation came up to me several times. In most of the situations Glosa can be=
 understood correctly at the first time! I've been thinking why those misun=
derstandings happend to me. The only answer perhaps is that Glosa authors d=
idn't give a detailed indication for each sentence patern.
Exp: Mi kanta. =
=3DI sing; My song; My singing. Not exact here! If we got two meanings, it =
was not a wonderful prospect for exact expressing. If we add "u", Mi u kant=
a=3DMy song, then "Mi kanta" could mean "I sing" But what about "My singing=
"? In Mondlango, it's clear. Mi kantan=3DI sing,Mia kanto=3DMy song, Mia ka=
nteco=3DMy singsing. I guess we should use "-ra" as Mondlango's "-ec-" for =
abstract actions and "-ri(-ma)" as Mondlango's "-ac-" for concrete things. =
Exp: Mi kanta-ra=3DMy singing, Mi kanta-ri(-ma)=3DMy song, Mi kanta=3D I si=
ng. Or "Mi u kanta" also could mean "My song" which could be optional to "m=
i kanta-ri(-ma)". "-ma" is old, I give a new--"-ri" for distinguishment fro=
m "ma"=3Dmore.
Back to the problem "Qo akti"=3D"What to do"
If we say "qo v=
ora", what does it mean in English? What meal? What eats (it)? What eating?=
 What to eat? I know some glosalist must say "What to eat". But I feel it n=
ot accurate. In my opinion, those English meanings ought to be like the fol=
lows:
U qo vora? or Qo vora-ri(-ma)? =3D "What meal?" MDL;Kia manjaco?
Qo v=
ora-ra?=3D What eating? MDL;Kia manjeco
Qo vora (id)?=3D What eats (it)? MD=
L:Kio manjan (ji)?
Vora qo?=3D What to eat? MDL: Manji kio? or Kio manji?
S=
o "Qo akti?" had better be spoken as "Akti qo?"

Another problem like "An a=
lo fe plu ami"
Some friend maybe tell me that means "his or her friends". B=
ut if I wanted to express "he or her friends", what should it be in Glosa? =
An means "he and his". How can we make it clear? The only way perhaps puts =
"an" behind "fe plu ami" like "Fe plu ami alo an". But there isn't really a=
 good way either to remain the original order like "he or her friends" or t=
o make it clear?

In Word making
Glosa's word making obviously is more adva=
nced than Mondlango's by some wise compounding of the familiar words, such =
as "akti-lexi"=3Dverb (MDL: verbo), "Meno 1"=3DJanuary(MDL:Januaro), poda-v=
e=3Dtrousers or pants (MDL:panto). It's not necessary for me to give much m=
ore examples to show how Glosa is wise like Chinese(But Glosa hasn't develo=
ped maximally in the wise compounding way. Exp:"gramatika(grammar)" could b=
e "lingua-lega(lingual-legal)" and so on).

Haha! I've written too much tod=
ay! More discussion will come in some time. 
Saluta!
Li Zhenyu





--- In =
glosalist@yahoogroups.com, myaleee nimah <myaleee@...> wrote:
>
> Dear Harr=
isro
> I am iraqi doktor, know esperanto. the chatroom is http://tech.group=
s.yahoo.com/group/glosalist/
> I loved glosa at first, for being simple wit=
h greek words, but its simplicity is too confusing!  e.g apo=3D remove, wit=
hout, removing, lacking  etc,  Learn it if you desire, but read  previous c=
hat pages   by going to calender,  after pressing home  in left of page. I =
now like mondlango much better, it is similar to esperanto but simpler than=
 glosa and  very  clear : go to wikipedia: mondlango. 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> ___=
_____________________________
> From: pb_bly <harrisro303@...>
> To: glosal=
ist@yahoogroups.com
> Sent: Tue, April 6, 2010 11:59:28 AM
> Subject: [glos=
alist] glosa room
> 
>   
> Hey there I am also a esperantisto. I still lea=
rn it once in a while but have also found Glosa. I was wondering if there i=
s a glosa room where people meet and chat?
> 
> Happy learning.
> 
> 
>  
>=
 
> 
>       
> 
> [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
>
=



