---
authorName: topdeboo
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;topdeboo&quot; &lt;topdeboo@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGhwaHN0ZStsaDVtQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhwaTJlYStiNHVqQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1405
msgSnippet: Hello, Li Zhenyu, Thanks a lot for your clever and detailed explanations
  of the way the Glosa words are pronounced in those sample files from glosa.org.
  Are
nextInTime: 1406
nextInTopic: 1407
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1270648074'
prevInTime: 1404
prevInTopic: 1404
profile: topdeboo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: ZTlE377w0KMgAU-tlRJoJwcvM57CKwEP-bGXVeXFPdH0Z3AnJDCG6vfqfL4KVkSggTNWCFNnGs1HiQJU9bV3oNpOljpxZA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Glosa&#39;s Improvement and Progress (An Answer to Oleg)(Revised thrice!)
  :('
topicId: 1404
userId: 441202924
---



Hello, Li Zhenyu,

Thanks a lot for your clever and detailed explanations=
 of the way the Glosa words are pronounced in those sample files from glosa=
.org. Are you not a lawyer, by the way? :-) 

> Sometimes, just like what h=
appens to many languages usually, people
> don't follow the rules of the co=
mmon or unpassionate standard 
> stress which means the stress wouldn't be =
on where it ought to as 
> in dictionaries but on the passionate syllable t=
hat people want to
> as their mood.

You've persuaded me completely that th=
e readers must have made those shifts of the stressed vowels in the heat of=
 passion, which provides them with the most convincing excuse. As for mysel=
f, I'm rather an impassive person, so I'll always try to observe the regula=
tions given in the official guide; judging by your remarks, I understand th=
em correctly.

I've read your other posts of today, they are all very inter=
esting. I wish I had knowledge of Glosa enough to assess your proposals. I =
can only say that at the Russian forum about Esperanto where I heard of Glo=
sa for the first time one of the members gave an example of the indistingui=
shable (by ear) words "an bovi" (his ox) and "an-bovi" (male ox) as a proof=
 of the insufficient accuracy of Glosa. For now, I wonder if Glosa grammar =
allows to translate two of your examples (from your another post) in this m=
anner (to convey the meaning more precisely): 
his or her friends =3D plu a=
mi de an alo de fe
he or her friends =3D an alo plu ami de fe.

Best regard=
s,
Oleg



