---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGhwaTJlYStiNHVqQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhwa2p0OStzbGZ2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1407
msgSnippet: Dear Oleg, Firstly about me,Haha! regrettably I m not a lawyer! However,
  I want to be a lawyer, judge, especially improver for Auxlangs! Haha! All those
  roles
nextInTime: 1408
nextInTopic: 1408
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1270731497'
prevInTime: 1406
prevInTopic: 1405
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: nbXanFfokSVu51L7Gkz6w99bLQqFemiuwOSYEkbavf1iuv0BRlbcY0i3DcwTV-kIoBpQnMtSwFPKkwuk2-6wD3HhgBRo6bs1Ugw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Glosa&#39;s Improvement and Progress (An Answer to Oleg)(Revised thrice!)
  :('
topicId: 1404
userId: 420932182
---

Dear Oleg,
Firstly about me,Haha! regrettably I'm not a lawyer! However, I =
want to be a lawyer, judge, especially improver for Auxlangs! Haha! All tho=
se roles are finally for the only easiest and most exact perfect communicat=
ion. In my mind, Glosa and Mondlango are more advanced than other ones, but=
 which both need to be furthermore improved in a contrary way. Glosa needs =
some improvement for even more exact expression by changing the old mechani=
cs into the new ones(as I proposed before). Mondlango needs to reduce some =
unnessary and irregular forms, Exp: "mias, yias, hias, xias, jias, lias, mu=
as, yuas, huas, xuas, juas, luas, sias; kius, tius, ius, and nius" should b=
e regularly replaced by "mio, yio, hio, xio, jio, lio, muo, yuo, huo, xuo, =
juo, luo, sio, kiuo( Adj.=3Dkiua), tiuo( Adj.=3Dtiua), iuo( Adj.=3Diua), an=
d niuo( Adj.=3Dniua) ("-s" forever for "plural". kius=3Dplural of "kiu", ti=
us=3Dplural of "tiu", etc.).

Haha! Funny! No? Maybe I should put my words =
on Mondlango at the Mondlango's forum, but not here! :D 

Mr. Miller is rig=
ht on his discription of Esperanto trying to be "Exact"and Glosa "the Faste=
st". My own opinions are as follows:

Esperanto's word order can be changea=
ble maximally as speakers wish, just by having a complex grammar which is a=
 must for that to show every word its own gramatical function. People have =
to pay much attention to every complex word's form, which really makes too =
much touble in speaking and writing (Maybe also hard in hearing, I haven't =
tried before!). For me, I hate to afford its complication, even it's exact =
enough in expression! 

Glosa's word order, contrarily to Esperanto, is sta=
ble, therefore it's grammar can be simple and without parts of speech. In m=
ost of the situations it can clearly show every word's invisible part of sp=
eech--the grammar function, but still has several leaks or loopholes(unclea=
r expressing ways) as I indicated before. For me, Glosa's really simple in =
speaking and writing, but occasionally some situations make me puzzled in h=
earing and reading! I still think Glosa has a greatest prospect! (My propos=
als given as per the Glosa's own way, theoretically should be acceptable fo=
r making itself even more exact in expression. )

Mondlango (including othe=
r Esperanto's offsprings) is just between Glosa and Esperanto, quite near E=
speranto in grammar but too far from the word sourcing of Esperanto and the=
 clever words-compounding of Glosa, as it's quite pro-English so that some =
call it the Fake English. I think Mondlango can learn even more from Closa =
in words-compounding. Exp:aktwordo=3Dverbo(action-word,verb),kwalitwordo/de=
skribwordo=3Dadjekto(quality-word,description-word, adjective), yerdeko=3Dd=
ekado(year-ten,decade) {derives from "yercento=3Dcentury, yermilo=3Dmilleni=
um"} mon-dekuno/mon-11=3Dnovembro(november){Numerals after nouns for distin=
guishment from "dek/cent/mil yero(s)"--(ten,hundred,thousand years),yercent=
o was centyero in the early time of MDL}, maxinhumo=3Droboto(machine-man,ro=
bot),langjuro=3Dgramatiko(language-legal,grammer).In the end, basically the=
 current Mondlango has no confusion and also is easier in grammar, but with=
 a lot of English-like words which need people to memorize purely. Mondlang=
o will continually go greater after it gets more improvement like I propose=
d above!

There is another type of auxlang named Lojban, literally "Logical=
 Language", which is quite fresh and different to the pro-native ones like =
Glosa, Mondlango, Mondlango, etc. in grammar and words. I just began studyi=
ng it and hard to tell whether it's good or not, however it has given me so=
me puzzles at the beginning in its words and grammar.

Finally, as I said a=
t the beginning, Glosa and Mondlango are the two best auxlangs currently.

=
Saluta!
Li Zhenyu 
   

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "topdeboo" <topde=
boo@...> wrote:
>
> 
> 
> Hello, Li Zhenyu,
> 
> Thanks a lot for your clev=
er and detailed explanations of the way the Glosa words are pronounced in t=
hose sample files from glosa.org. Are you not a lawyer, by the way? :-) 
> =

> > Sometimes, just like what happens to many languages usually, people
> =
> don't follow the rules of the common or unpassionate standard 
> > stress=
 which means the stress wouldn't be on where it ought to as 
> > in diction=
aries but on the passionate syllable that people want to
> > as their mood.=

> 
> You've persuaded me completely that the readers must have made those =
shifts of the stressed vowels in the heat of passion, which provides them w=
ith the most convincing excuse. As for myself, I'm rather an impassive pers=
on, so I'll always try to observe the regulations given in the official gui=
de; judging by your remarks, I understand them correctly.
> 
> I've read yo=
ur other posts of today, they are all very interesting. I wish I had knowle=
dge of Glosa enough to assess your proposals. I can only say that at the Ru=
ssian forum about Esperanto where I heard of Glosa for the first time one o=
f the members gave an example of the indistinguishable (by ear) words "an b=
ovi" (his ox) and "an-bovi" (male ox) as a proof of the insufficient accura=
cy of Glosa. For now, I wonder if Glosa grammar allows to translate two of =
your examples (from your another post) in this manner (to convey the meanin=
g more precisely): 
> his or her friends =3D plu ami de an alo de fe
> he o=
r her friends =3D an alo plu ami de fe.
> 
> Best regards,
> Oleg
>



