---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQ0MTE0LjQ2MjM0LnFtQHdlYjExMTQxMS5tYWlsLmdxMS55YWhvby5jb20+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhwbTJiNitkODhjQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1409
msgSnippet: Dear Myaleee, I m delighted to accept your invitation, also will go on
  helping you with your new auxlang based on Glosa --Glisi s creation as per your
  way.
nextInTime: 1410
nextInTopic: 1412
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1270779046'
prevInTime: 1408
prevInTopic: 1408
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: u16O2Fu3onAR548eTFjVUOcQCiBo77bAyj-q3tKDlxGp4yJ-jnRuYVS_VtaTpFBTIXxMDX_gXqFZdV0Wxf4fjA7WuEyhseslDro
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Glosa&#39;s Improvement and Progress (An Answer to Oleg)(Revised thrice!)
  :('
topicId: 1404
userId: 420932182
---

Dear Myaleee,
I'm delighted to accept your invitation, also will go on help=
ing you with your new auxlang based on Glosa --Glisi's creation as per your=
 way. Speaking of my improvement to Glosa, if Glosa's author doesn't take i=
t, I'd like to rename it Munda-glosa.I'm interested in improving any langua=
ge including native ones. (I ever improved English individually as Glosa an=
d Mondlango ways. If anyone would like to view them, I'm glad to give a sho=
w here!)  :D
More replies will follow.
Saluta! 
Li Zhenyu

--- In glosalist=
@yahoogroups.com, myaleee nimah <myaleee@...> wrote:
>
> dear lizhenyu_god
=
> 
> your opinions are illuminating and interesting!
> I like also LFN(read=
 about it in wikipedia): its words are always natural (from romance languag=
es), grammar is the simplest I have seen, very clear to read and write. Any=
one can suggest changes (Mr Boeree the creator, is there to discuss changes=
)! It is user-generated, like wikipedia, youtube!
> 
> saluta
> 
> :-)
> 
>=
 Myaleee
> 
> 
> 
> 
> ________________________________
> From: Zhenyu <liz=
henyu_god@...>
> To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
> Sent: Thu, April 8, 2010 5=
:58:17 AM
> Subject: [glosalist] Re: Glosa's Improvement and Progress (An A=
nswer to Oleg)(Revised thrice!) :(
> 
>   
> Dear Oleg,
> Firstly about me,=
Haha! regrettably I'm not a lawyer! However, I want to be a lawyer, judge, =
especially improver for Auxlangs! Haha! All those roles are finally for the=
 only easiest and most exact perfect communication. In my mind, Glosa and M=
ondlango are more advanced than other ones, but which both need to be furth=
ermore improved in a contrary way. Glosa needs some improvement for even mo=
re exact expression by changing the old mechanics into the new ones(as I pr=
oposed before). Mondlango needs to reduce some unnessary and irregular form=
s, Exp: "mias, yias, hias, xias, jias, lias, muas, yuas, huas, xuas, juas, =
luas, sias; kius, tius, ius, and nius" should be regularly replaced by "mio=
, yio, hio, xio, jio, lio, muo, yuo, huo, xuo, juo, luo, sio, kiuo( Adj.=3D=
kiua), tiuo( Adj.=3Dtiua), iuo( Adj.=3Diua), and niuo( Adj.=3Dniua) ("-s" f=
orever for "plural". kius=3Dplural of "kiu", tius=3Dplural of "tiu", etc.).=

> 
> Haha! Funny! No? Maybe I should put my words on Mondlango at the Mond=
lango's forum, but not here! :D 
> 
> Mr. Miller is right on his discriptio=
n of Esperanto trying to be "Exact"and Glosa "the Fastest". My own opinions=
 are as follows:
> 
> Esperanto's word order can be changeable maximally as=
 speakers wish, just by having a complex grammar which is a must for that t=
o show every word its own gramatical function. People have to pay much atte=
ntion to every complex word's form, which really makes too much touble in s=
peaking and writing (Maybe also hard in hearing, I haven't tried before!). =
For me, I hate to afford its complication, even it's exact enough in expres=
sion! 
> 
> Glosa's word order, contrarily to Esperanto, is stable, therefo=
re it's grammar can be simple and without parts of speech. In most of the s=
ituations it can clearly show every word's invisible part of speech--the gr=
ammar function, but still has several leaks or loopholes(unclear expressing=
 ways) as I indicated before. For me, Glosa's really simple in speaking and=
 writing, but occasionally some situations make me puzzled in hearing and r=
eading! I still think Glosa has a greatest prospect! (My proposals given as=
 per the Glosa's own way, theoretically should be acceptable for making its=
elf even more exact in expression. )
> 
> Mondlango (including other Espera=
nto's offsprings) is just between Glosa and Esperanto, quite near Esperanto=
 in grammar but too far from the word sourcing of Esperanto and the clever =
words-compounding of Glosa, as it's quite pro-English so that some call it =
the Fake English. I think Mondlango can learn even more from Closa in words=
-compounding. Exp:aktwordo=3D verbo(action- word,verb) ,kwalitwordo/ deskri=
bwordo=3D adjekto(quality- word,description -word, adjective), yerdeko=3Dde=
kado( year-ten, decade) {derives from "yercento=3Dcentury, yermilo=3Dmillen=
ium" } mon-dekuno/mon- 11=3Dnovembro( november) {Numerals after nouns for d=
istinguishment from "dek/cent/mil yero(s)"--(ten, hundred,thousand years),y=
ercento was centyero in the early time of MDL}, maxinhumo=3Droboto( machine=
-man, robot),langjuro=3D gramatiko( language- legal,grammer) .In the end, b=
asically the current Mondlango has no confusion and also is easier in gramm=
ar, but with a lot of English-like words which need
>  people to memorize p=
urely. Mondlango will continually go greater after it gets more improvement=
 like I proposed above!
> 
> There is another type of auxlang named Lojban,=
 literally "Logical Language", which is quite fresh and different to the pr=
o-native ones like Glosa, Mondlango, Mondlango, etc. in grammar and words. =
I just began studying it and hard to tell whether it's good or not, however=
 it has given me some puzzles at the beginning in its words and grammar.
> =

> Finally, as I said at the beginning, Glosa and Mondlango are the two bes=
t auxlangs currently.
> 
> Saluta!
> Li Zhenyu 
> 
> 
> --- In glosalist@ya=
hoogrou ps.com, "topdeboo" <topdeboo@ .> wrote:
> >
> > 
> > 
> > Hello, Li=
 Zhenyu,
> > 
> > Thanks a lot for your clever and detailed explanations of=
 the way the Glosa words are pronounced in those sample files from glosa.or=
g. Are you not a lawyer, by the way? :-) 
> > 
> > > Sometimes, just like w=
hat happens to many languages usually, people
> > > don't follow the rules =
of the common or unpassionate standard 
> > > stress which means the stress=
 wouldn't be on where it ought to as 
> > > in dictionaries but on the pass=
ionate syllable that people want to
> > > as their mood.
> > 
> > You've pe=
rsuaded me completely that the readers must have made those shifts of the s=
tressed vowels in the heat of passion, which provides them with the most co=
nvincing excuse. As for myself, I'm rather an impassive person, so I'll alw=
ays try to observe the regulations given in the official guide; judging by =
your remarks, I understand them correctly.
> > 
> > I've read your other po=
sts of today, they are all very interesting. I wish I had knowledge of Glos=
a enough to assess your proposals. I can only say that at the Russian forum=
 about Esperanto where I heard of Glosa for the first time one of the membe=
rs gave an example of the indistinguishable (by ear) words "an bovi" (his o=
x) and "an-bovi" (male ox) as a proof of the insufficient accuracy of Glosa=
. For now, I wonder if Glosa grammar allows to translate two of your exampl=
es (from your another post) in this manner (to convey the meaning more prec=
isely): 
> > his or her friends =3D plu ami de an alo de fe
> > he or her f=
riends =3D an alo plu ami de fe.
> > 
> > Best regards,
> > Oleg
> >
> 
> 
=
>  
> 
> 
>       
> 
> [Non-text portions of this message have been remove=
d]
>



