---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGJmaXU3OCtvdXZ1QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwNzI0MTM1OTI4LjAwNzI4YWU0QHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 140
msgSnippet: '... area alo inter mu. ... ad di. ... ** Ko hedo, John, kritici /krEEtEE-CH-EE/
  : (to)criticise, criticism, (a)critique dona kritici = give criticism'
nextInTime: 141
nextInTopic: 142
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1059019168'
prevInTime: 139
prevInTopic: 137
profile: bliminus_107_ssaass
replyTo: LIST
senderId: NDLJLSJam3uGXymlsBNky-zBNsGlip-F1RsuCxpirfdmfZbecBuXmJCia6P3NVwRJHUh1YWkJrF05TcsPS3lHMTOsdlHkMyEzIGtymLQABSwqKN1hA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Place critique(?) PART A.'
topicId: 137
userId: 147970330
---

At 08:56 AM 7/22/03 -0000, John Braddock grafo:
>Saluta!
>
>Place critique(?) pro mi.
>
>Il es tri plu type de plu ergo-pe. Na alo kongru ad-in mo do plu->ci plu
area alo inter mu.
>
>Na ergo fu gene pluto, fu gene avanti alo dura vive.
>
>Vari no-poli pe gene pluto, plu pe gene avanti e majorita >kontenta de di
ad di.
>
>Gratia,
>
** Ko hedo, John,

kritici /krEEtEE-CH-EE/ : (to)criticise, criticism, (a)critique 

dona kritici = give criticism [criticise]
   - - - 
tipo /tEEpOR/ : type(of), (to)type, (a)type, ; ge-tipo = printed

es tri plu tipo* --> es tri tipo
    ~plu~ is needed as a #numerator# only in the absence of some other word
(a number, numerical moderator) indicating more than one.
   - - -
tri tipo de plu ergo-pe  (optionally)  tri tipo de ergo-pe
    Either is correct, and the choice depends on style .. if plurality is
not in doubt.  The plurality of ~tri~ flows into the supplementary phrase,
so a second statement of plurality is not actually needed; say both options
out loud, and see which 'feels' and sounds better.
   - - -   
Na alo kongru ad-in mo do plu-ci plu area alo inter mu.

Alo, na habe loka intra mo de plu-ci area, alo inter mu.

alo; alo .. alo = or;   either ... or; either, ..., or
(( mo alo hetero = one or other, either))
   - - -
na kongru ad-in = we fit into (Does it pass the sound/'feel' test)

na habe loka intra = we have place inside [are placed in]

in; ad-in = into     %I prefer the Old Glosa, ~in~ = "into"%
     The shorter word seems adequate, but can readily be confused with the
English "in"; thus another usage, ~ad-in~, was coined, mainly, I guess, for
the sake of English-speakers.
intra = inside, in
   ((Quite simply, there is a distinct logical difference between the
implied action of moving 'into' something, and the state of being 'in' or
'inside' something.  Perhaps Glosa should maintain this logical difference.))
   - - -
 de plu-ci plu area*    -->    de plu-ci area
[of these the areas]          [of these areas]
     ~plu-ci~ is a plural numerator - the ~plu~ is built-in; thus,
     it is redundant to restate the plurality of ~area~ for the
     rest of the sentence. 
   - - -

  Ci mi pa somni.

Saluta,

Robin



