---
authorName: myaleee nimah
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: myaleee nimah &lt;myaleee@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGhwbTJiNitkODhjQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDgwMDExNC4yOTg4LnFtQHdlYjExMTQwNi5tYWlsLmdxMS55YWhvby5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: PGhwbTJiNitkODhjQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1412
msgSnippet: 'Dear Zhenyu Please send me an email about your modified English! You
  are brilliant! ________________________________ From: Zhenyu  '
nextInTime: 1413
nextInTopic: 1413
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1270832901'
prevInTime: 1411
prevInTopic: 1409
profile: myaleee
replyTo: LIST
senderId: eRP2YE3oSrEPiPPKUGjeATPmV-8BwQCbZDtx4uo9GTgAvntnOqGk5pD1wLuVILG_5PLG9f3zS1jCnOzl-XUY9vUIF6ALslSi
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Glosa&#39;s Improvement and Progress (An Answer to Oleg)(Revised
  thrice!) :('
topicId: 1404
userId: 288947930
---

Dear Zhenyu
Please send me an email about your modified English! You are br=
illiant!





________________________________
From: Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@h=
otmail.com>
To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Thu, April 8, 2010 7:10:46 =
PM
Subject: [glosalist] Re: Glosa's Improvement and Progress (An Answer to =
Oleg)(Revised thrice!) :(

  
Dear Myaleee,
I'm delighted to accept your in=
vitation, also will go on helping you with your new auxlang based on Glosa =
--Glisi's creation as per your way. Speaking of my improvement to Glosa, if=
 Glosa's author doesn't take it, I'd like to rename it Munda-glosa. I'm int=
erested in improving any language including native ones. (I ever improved E=
nglish individually as Glosa and Mondlango ways. If anyone would like to vi=
ew them, I'm glad to give a show here!)  :D
More replies will follow.
Salut=
a! 
Li Zhenyu

--- In glosalist@yahoogrou ps.com, myaleee nimah <myaleee@..=
. > wrote:
>
> dear lizhenyu_god
> 
> your opinions are illuminating and in=
teresting!
> I like also LFN(read about it in wikipedia): its words are alw=
ays natural (from romance languages), grammar is the simplest I have seen, =
very clear to read and write. Anyone can suggest changes (Mr Boeree the cre=
ator, is there to discuss changes)! It is user-generated, like wikipedia, y=
outube!
> 
> saluta
> 
> :-)
> 
> Myaleee
> 
> 
> 
> 
> ____________ ______=
___ _________ __
> From: Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@ ...>
> To: glosalist@yahoogr=
ou ps.com
> Sent: Thu, April 8, 2010 5:58:17 AM
> Subject: [glosalist] Re: =
Glosa's Improvement and Progress (An Answer to Oleg)(Revised thrice!) :(
> =

> 
> Dear Oleg,
> Firstly about me,Haha! regrettably I'm not a lawyer! How=
ever, I want to be a lawyer, judge, especially improver for Auxlangs! Haha!=
 All those roles are finally for the only easiest and most exact perfect co=
mmunication. In my mind, Glosa and Mondlango are more advanced than other o=
nes, but which both need to be furthermore improved in a contrary way. Glos=
a needs some improvement for even more exact expression by changing the old=
 mechanics into the new ones(as I proposed before). Mondlango needs to redu=
ce some unnessary and irregular forms, Exp: "mias, yias, hias, xias, jias, =
lias, muas, yuas, huas, xuas, juas, luas, sias; kius, tius, ius, and nius" =
should be regularly replaced by "mio, yio, hio, xio, jio, lio, muo, yuo, hu=
o, xuo, juo, luo, sio, kiuo( Adj.=3Dkiua), tiuo( Adj.=3Dtiua), iuo( Adj.=3D=
iua), and niuo( Adj.=3Dniua) ("-s" forever for "plural". kius=3Dplural of "=
kiu", tius=3Dplural of "tiu", etc.).
> 
> Haha! Funny! No? Maybe I should p=
ut my words on Mondlango at the Mondlango's forum, but not here! :D 
> 
> M=
r. Miller is right on his discription of Esperanto trying to be "Exact"and =
Glosa "the Fastest". My own opinions are as follows:
> 
> Esperanto's word =
order can be changeable maximally as speakers wish, just by having a comple=
x grammar which is a must for that to show every word its own gramatical fu=
nction. People have to pay much attention to every complex word's form, whi=
ch really makes too much touble in speaking and writing (Maybe also hard in=
 hearing, I haven't tried before!). For me, I hate to afford its complicati=
on, even it's exact enough in expression! 
> 
> Glosa's word order, contrar=
ily to Esperanto, is stable, therefore it's grammar can be simple and witho=
ut parts of speech. In most of the situations it can clearly show every wor=
d's invisible part of speech--the grammar function, but still has several l=
eaks or loopholes(unclear expressing ways) as I indicated before. For me, G=
losa's really simple in speaking and writing, but occasionally some situati=
ons make me puzzled in hearing and reading! I still think Glosa has a great=
est prospect! (My proposals given as per the Glosa's own way, theoretically=
 should be acceptable for making itself even more exact in expression. )
> =

> Mondlango (including other Esperanto's offsprings) is just between Glosa=
 and Esperanto, quite near Esperanto in grammar but too far from the word s=
ourcing of Esperanto and the clever words-compounding of Glosa, as it's qui=
te pro-English so that some call it the Fake English. I think Mondlango can=
 learn even more from Closa in words-compounding. Exp:aktwordo=3D verbo(act=
ion- word,verb) ,kwalitwordo/ deskribwordo=3D adjekto(quality- word,descrip=
tion -word, adjective), yerdeko=3Ddekado( year-ten, decade) {derives from "=
yercento=3Dcentury, yermilo=3Dmillenium" } mon-dekuno/mon- 11=3Dnovembro( n=
ovember) {Numerals after nouns for distinguishment from "dek/cent/mil yero(=
s)"--(ten, hundred,thousand years),yercento was centyero in the early time =
of MDL}, maxinhumo=3Droboto( machine-man, robot),langjuro=3D gramatiko( lan=
guage- legal,grammer) .In the end, basically the current Mondlango has no c=
onfusion and also is easier in grammar, but with a lot of English-like word=
s which
 need
>  people to memorize purely. Mondlango will continually go g=
reater after it gets more improvement like I proposed above!
> 
> There is =
another type of auxlang named Lojban, literally "Logical Language", which i=
s quite fresh and different to the pro-native ones like Glosa, Mondlango, M=
ondlango, etc. in grammar and words. I just began studying it and hard to t=
ell whether it's good or not, however it has given me some puzzles at the b=
eginning in its words and grammar.
> 
> Finally, as I said at the beginning=
, Glosa and Mondlango are the two best auxlangs currently.
> 
> Saluta!
> L=
i Zhenyu 
> 
> 
> --- In glosalist@yahoogrou ps.com, "topdeboo" <topdeboo@ =
.> wrote:
> >
> > 
> > 
> > Hello, Li Zhenyu,
> > 
> > Thanks a lot for you=
r clever and detailed explanations of the way the Glosa words are pronounce=
d in those sample files from glosa.org. Are you not a lawyer, by the way? :=
-) 
> > 
> > > Sometimes, just like what happens to many languages usually,=
 people
> > > don't follow the rules of the common or unpassionate standard=
 
> > > stress which means the stress wouldn't be on where it ought to as 
=
> > > in dictionaries but on the passionate syllable that people want to
> =
> > as their mood.
> > 
> > You've persuaded me completely that the readers=
 must have made those shifts of the stressed vowels in the heat of passion,=
 which provides them with the most convincing excuse. As for myself, I'm ra=
ther an impassive person, so I'll always try to observe the regulations giv=
en in the official guide; judging by your remarks, I understand them correc=
tly.
> > 
> > I've read your other posts of today, they are all very intere=
sting. I wish I had knowledge of Glosa enough to assess your proposals. I c=
an only say that at the Russian forum about Esperanto where I heard of Glos=
a for the first time one of the members gave an example of the indistinguis=
hable (by ear) words "an bovi" (his ox) and "an-bovi" (male ox) as a proof =
of the insufficient accuracy of Glosa. For now, I wonder if Glosa grammar a=
llows to translate two of your examples (from your another post) in this ma=
nner (to convey the meaning more precisely): 
> > his or her friends =3D pl=
u ami de an alo de fe
> > he or her friends =3D an alo plu ami de fe.
> > 
=
> > Best regards,
> > Oleg
> >
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> [Non-text portions of=
 this message have been removed]
>


 


      

[Non-text portions of this=
 message have been removed]


