---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDgwMDExNC4yOTg4LnFtQHdlYjExMTQwNi5tYWlsLmdxMS55YWhvby5jb20+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhwdjQwYytpZmlvQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1417
msgSnippet: Karo Myaleee, Mi fu bali mi ge-ma-boni English a tu, po mi translati un
  indika ad in English. ... Saluta! Li Zhenyu
nextInTime: 1418
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1271075660'
prevInTime: 1416
prevInTopic: 1415
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: TYr38Ob8kWkPLt9q1NoJSYa9ef_8JJGJK5Q-gai2H7RZ0nR14FRwvPJA-geeVNxQgHF6MjTBHuFTp5Q8Izq6t8LFW5lc8O_U4aQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Glosa&#39;s Improvement and Progress (An Answer to Oleg)(Revised thrice!)
  :('
topicId: 1404
userId: 420932182
---

Karo Myaleee,
Mi fu bali mi ge-ma-boni English a tu, po mi translati un ind=
ika ad in English.
:-)
Saluta!
Li Zhenyu

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com,=
 myaleee nimah <myaleee@...> wrote:
>
> Dear Zhenyu
> Please send me an ema=
il about your modified English! You are brilliant!
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> _______=
_________________________
> From: Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@...>
> To: glosalist=
@yahoogroups.com
> Sent: Thu, April 8, 2010 7:10:46 PM
> Subject: [glosalis=
t] Re: Glosa's Improvement and Progress (An Answer to Oleg)(Revised thrice!=
) :(
> 
>   
> Dear Myaleee,
> I'm delighted to accept your invitation, als=
o will go on helping you with your new auxlang based on Glosa --Glisi's cre=
ation as per your way. Speaking of my improvement to Glosa, if Glosa's auth=
or doesn't take it, I'd like to rename it Munda-glosa. I'm interested in im=
proving any language including native ones. (I ever improved English indivi=
dually as Glosa and Mondlango ways. If anyone would like to view them, I'm =
glad to give a show here!)  :D
> More replies will follow.
> Saluta! 
> Li =
Zhenyu
> 
> --- In glosalist@yahoogrou ps.com, myaleee nimah <myaleee@ > wr=
ote:
> >
> > dear lizhenyu_god
> > 
> > your opinions are illuminating and =
interesting!
> > I like also LFN(read about it in wikipedia): its words are=
 always natural (from romance languages), grammar is the simplest I have se=
en, very clear to read and write. Anyone can suggest changes (Mr Boeree the=
 creator, is there to discuss changes)! It is user-generated, like wikipedi=
a, youtube!
> > 
> > saluta
> > 
> > :-)
> > 
> > Myaleee
> > 
> > 
> > 
> =
> 
> > ____________ _________ _________ __
> > From: Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@ =
...>
> > To: glosalist@yahoogrou ps.com
> > Sent: Thu, April 8, 2010 5:58:1=
7 AM
> > Subject: [glosalist] Re: Glosa's Improvement and Progress (An Answ=
er to Oleg)(Revised thrice!) :(
> > 
> > 
> > Dear Oleg,
> > Firstly about =
me,Haha! regrettably I'm not a lawyer! However, I want to be a lawyer, judg=
e, especially improver for Auxlangs! Haha! All those roles are finally for =
the only easiest and most exact perfect communication. In my mind, Glosa an=
d Mondlango are more advanced than other ones, but which both need to be fu=
rthermore improved in a contrary way. Glosa needs some improvement for even=
 more exact expression by changing the old mechanics into the new ones(as I=
 proposed before). Mondlango needs to reduce some unnessary and irregular f=
orms, Exp: "mias, yias, hias, xias, jias, lias, muas, yuas, huas, xuas, jua=
s, luas, sias; kius, tius, ius, and nius" should be regularly replaced by "=
mio, yio, hio, xio, jio, lio, muo, yuo, huo, xuo, juo, luo, sio, kiuo( Adj.=
=3Dkiua), tiuo( Adj.=3Dtiua), iuo( Adj.=3Diua), and niuo( Adj.=3Dniua) ("-s=
" forever for "plural". kius=3Dplural of "kiu", tius=3Dplural of "tiu", etc=
.).
> > 
> > Haha! Funny! No? Maybe I should put my words on Mondlango at t=
he Mondlango's forum, but not here! :D 
> > 
> > Mr. Miller is right on his=
 discription of Esperanto trying to be "Exact"and Glosa "the Fastest". My o=
wn opinions are as follows:
> > 
> > Esperanto's word order can be changeab=
le maximally as speakers wish, just by having a complex grammar which is a =
must for that to show every word its own gramatical function. People have t=
o pay much attention to every complex word's form, which really makes too m=
uch touble in speaking and writing (Maybe also hard in hearing, I haven't t=
ried before!). For me, I hate to afford its complication, even it's exact e=
nough in expression! 
> > 
> > Glosa's word order, contrarily to Esperanto,=
 is stable, therefore it's grammar can be simple and without parts of speec=
h. In most of the situations it can clearly show every word's invisible par=
t of speech--the grammar function, but still has several leaks or loopholes=
(unclear expressing ways) as I indicated before. For me, Glosa's really sim=
ple in speaking and writing, but occasionally some situations make me puzzl=
ed in hearing and reading! I still think Glosa has a greatest prospect! (My=
 proposals given as per the Glosa's own way, theoretically should be accept=
able for making itself even more exact in expression. )
> > 
> > Mondlango =
(including other Esperanto's offsprings) is just between Glosa and Esperant=
o, quite near Esperanto in grammar but too far from the word sourcing of Es=
peranto and the clever words-compounding of Glosa, as it's quite pro-Englis=
h so that some call it the Fake English. I think Mondlango can learn even m=
ore from Closa in words-compounding. Exp:aktwordo=3D verbo(action- word,ver=
b) ,kwalitwordo/ deskribwordo=3D adjekto(quality- word,description -word, a=
djective), yerdeko=3Ddekado( year-ten, decade) {derives from "yercento=3Dce=
ntury, yermilo=3Dmillenium" } mon-dekuno/mon- 11=3Dnovembro( november) {Num=
erals after nouns for distinguishment from "dek/cent/mil yero(s)"--(ten, hu=
ndred,thousand years),yercento was centyero in the early time of MDL}, maxi=
nhumo=3Droboto( machine-man, robot),langjuro=3D gramatiko( language- legal,=
grammer) .In the end, basically the current Mondlango has no confusion and =
also is easier in grammar, but with a lot of English-like words which
>  ne=
ed
> >  people to memorize purely. Mondlango will continually go greater af=
ter it gets more improvement like I proposed above!
> > 
> > There is anoth=
er type of auxlang named Lojban, literally "Logical Language", which is qui=
te fresh and different to the pro-native ones like Glosa, Mondlango, Mondla=
ngo, etc. in grammar and words. I just began studying it and hard to tell w=
hether it's good or not, however it has given me some puzzles at the beginn=
ing in its words and grammar.
> > 
> > Finally, as I said at the beginning,=
 Glosa and Mondlango are the two best auxlangs currently.
> > 
> > Saluta!
=
> > Li Zhenyu 
> > 
> > 
> > --- In glosalist@yahoogrou ps.com, "topdeboo" =
<topdeboo@ .> wrote:
> > >
> > > 
> > > 
> > > Hello, Li Zhenyu,
> > > 
> >=
 > Thanks a lot for your clever and detailed explanations of the way the Gl=
osa words are pronounced in those sample files from glosa.org. Are you not =
a lawyer, by the way? :-) 
> > > 
> > > > Sometimes, just like what happens=
 to many languages usually, people
> > > > don't follow the rules of the co=
mmon or unpassionate standard 
> > > > stress which means the stress wouldn=
't be on where it ought to as 
> > > > in dictionaries but on the passionat=
e syllable that people want to
> > > > as their mood.
> > > 
> > > You've p=
ersuaded me completely that the readers must have made those shifts of the =
stressed vowels in the heat of passion, which provides them with the most c=
onvincing excuse. As for myself, I'm rather an impassive person, so I'll al=
ways try to observe the regulations given in the official guide; judging by=
 your remarks, I understand them correctly.
> > > 
> > > I've read your oth=
er posts of today, they are all very interesting. I wish I had knowledge of=
 Glosa enough to assess your proposals. I can only say that at the Russian =
forum about Esperanto where I heard of Glosa for the first time one of the =
members gave an example of the indistinguishable (by ear) words "an bovi" (=
his ox) and "an-bovi" (male ox) as a proof of the insufficient accuracy of =
Glosa. For now, I wonder if Glosa grammar allows to translate two of your e=
xamples (from your another post) in this manner (to convey the meaning more=
 precisely): 
> > > his or her friends =3D plu ami de an alo de fe
> > > he=
 or her friends =3D an alo plu ami de fe.
> > > 
> > > Best regards,
> > > =
Oleg
> > >
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > [Non-text portions of thi=
s message have been removed]
> >
> 
> 
>  
> 
> 
>       
> 
> [Non-text po=
rtions of this message have been removed]
>



