---
authorName: topdeboo
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;topdeboo&quot; &lt;topdeboo@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMTAwNDE3LjE0NTEwOS4yODQ0LjEuanVzdGkubWlsbGVyQGp1bm8uY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhxZjczYSsyMjBrQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1429
msgSnippet: Hello Gary, You ve made the matter quite clear to me, thank you. I suppose
  if one would prefer to retain the word debi (to indicate obligation), the
nextInTime: 1430
nextInTopic: 1432
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1271603114'
prevInTime: 1428
prevInTopic: 1428
profile: topdeboo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 51zAuyVkVW9H7BW8y97ahyFbEMSeXigDAtADcml51lSlHST-KnhhR-JSM5Uk0bpjkCEYCOkNrezfEu4WG4b3O6TGDd8jvw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Glosa kogita'
topicId: 1427
userId: 441202924
---



Hello Gary,

You've made the matter quite clear to me, thank you. I suppo=
se if one would prefer to retain the word "debi" (to indicate obligation), =
the following variants would also be acceptable, the place of "tako" being =
changed and a preposition added for the sake of clarity, as you have sugges=
ted:

1) You should quickly get accustomed to thinking in Glosa. 
   Tu deb=
i tako gene more de Glosa kogita.
2) You should get accustomed to thinking =
quickly in Glosa.
   Tu debi gene more de tako Glosa kogita.

Poli saluta,
=
Oleg

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Gary R Miller <justi.miller@...> wr=
ote:
>
> Oleg--
> 
> "Tu debi gene tako more Glosa kogita.  You should quic=
kly get accustomed
> thinking in Glosa."
>  
> In my opinion, there are two=
 variants of translation possible:
>  
> 1) Tu debi (gene tako more) (Glosa=
 kogita). =3D You should quickly get
> accustomed to thinking in Glosa.
>  =

> 2) Tu debi (gene tako) (more Glosa kogita). =3D You should get accustome=
d
> to thinking quickly in Glosa. (or: "to quick Glosa thinking").
> 
> * *=
 *
> 
> There is an error with sentence order here.  TAKO is in the wrong p=
lace. 
> It modifies either DEBI or GENE, and should, therefore, come befor=
e one
> of those two words.  And FU would probably be better than the Engli=
sh
> subjunctive SHOULD here.  I think you have found an all-around bad
> s=
entence.
> 
> I have found that a good way to make Glosa more precise is to=
 add
> prepositions:
> 
> 1) Tu FU TAKO gene more (DE) kogita (PER) Glosa.
=
> 
> 2) Tu FU gene more (DE) TAKO kogita (PER) Glosa.
> 
> There are still =
other ways to solve the problem, but adding prepositions
> and U(N)/PLU oft=
en help to clarify Glosa sentences.
> 
> As a former student of Russian, le=
t me say that your English is
> outstanding.
> 
> -> Iso u pre stude-pe de =
Rosija lingua, mi debi dice; tu England lingua
> es forti fo-boni.
> 
> _ _=

> /.
> /\   Gary
> ##
> __________________________________________________=
__________
> Penny Stock Jumping 2000%
> Sign up to the #1 voted penny stoc=
k newsletter for free today!
> http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/4bc=
a1140a87f68190m06duc
>



