---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGJmaXU3OCtvdXZ1QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwNzI0MTUyNDExLjAwNmM1ZjdjQHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 142
msgSnippet: '... ** fu = will, shall  ( This is one of the tense particle that can
  be placed at the start of a VERB PHRASE) te = in order to, to(do)   ( an odd one,
  but'
nextInTime: 143
nextInTopic: 143
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1059024251'
prevInTime: 141
prevInTopic: 140
profile: bliminus_107_ssaass
replyTo: LIST
senderId: xOxwlLiuM8MbzC1mSnGU7qdQi5Pjsoq9tNfPz9aW9lQ3h6ibKBk8cEefeMvucSZffsGT1yKRcXQqqzbcV2HcBAdVWEgQaCAouG8i2KKZdAxo7MWwkw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Place critique(?) PART B.'
topicId: 137
userId: 147970330
---

At 08:56 AM 7/22/03 -0000, John Braddock grafo:
>Saluta!
>
>Place critique(?) pro mi.
>
>Il es tri plu type de plu ergo-pe. Na alo kongru ad-in mo do plu-ci 
>plu area alo inter mu.
>
>Na ergo fu gene pluto, fu gene avanti alo dura vive.
>
>Vari no-poli pe gene pluto, plu pe gene avanti e majorita kontenta de 
>di ad di.
>
>Gratia,
>
** 
fu = will, shall  ( This is one of the tense particle that can be
      placed at the start of a VERB PHRASE)
te = in order to, to(do)   ( an odd one, but necessary for some usages,
      and very similar to the infinitive)
de = of, about, ...general purpose preposition..., to(act) -like 
      infinitive-
NB The infinitive of English is one usage of a substantive word in Glosa.
  e.g.  dromo = run, to run, a run 
        ~An hedo dromo.~  =  He likes to run.  OR  He likes running.
   . . .
 Na ergo fu gene pluto, fu gene avanti alo dura vive.

 Na ergo te gene pluto, te gene avanti alo te dura vive.
[We work in order to get rich, to get ahead, or to survive.]

       (While the ~te~ might seem repetitive, the concept of 
       "intention" is inherent in it, and in this little story
       "intention" is all.  And we are told there are three main 
       intentions behind work, so it is only fair to give each of the
       three intentions its due, and 'flag' it in with a ~te~.
   - - -
 Vari no-poli pe gene pluto

 Veri, ne poli pe gene pluto      ALO  Veri, oligi persona gene pluto
[Truly, not many people get rich]     [Truly, few people get rich]

no, no- = un-  (negatives the word following)
 e.g. Fe es fo no-pluto.     An veni, no-dromo.   Fe arrive no-vagona.
     [She is very un-rich.] [He came unrunning.] [She arrives on foot.]

Note: ~ne~ precedes the VERB, but here it appears to precede and modify 
the ADJECTIVE, ~poli~, however, this sentence could be a re-arrangement of
the  Subject-Verb  sentence: "Many people do not get rich."
                                $Poli-pe      ne gene   pluto.$  
   - - -
 plu pe gene avanti*     -->    plura-pe gene avanti
[the people get ahead]         [several(people) get ahead]
                           OR  <some people get ahead>

    The concept of "some" might still need some work in Glosa.    
    ~plu-pe~ = people  (but this is a compound of two abbreviations
                          plu-pe = plura-persona = people)
   - - -
 e majorita kontenta de di ad di.  (Maybe a few words are missing.)

 e u majorita habe kontenta ko dura vive ex di a di.
[and the majority are content with surviving from day to day.] 

de = of, about, ..from
ex = from, by

Saluta,

Robin


