---
authorName: Gary R Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary R Miller &lt;justi.miller@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMTAwNDIyLjIxMzA1Ny44OTYuMC5qdXN0aS5taWxsZXJAanVuby5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1443
msgSnippet: 'Liogab11, Myaleee, Zhenyu-- Liogab11:  I also believe that the full version
  of 18 Steps should be made accessible to those who wish to learn Glosa this way.
  It'
nextInTime: 1444
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1271993456'
prevInTime: 1442
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 0PZST1bhmd0abURDqfHK5BDIfb06zAF1QpH_f5k_cW0mFP2sjOUB0L1JcKR6Irz_NqJYS3_Oy1ZRwdynksDRReb43C9xTCSNlF1VUQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 18 Gradu, plus...
topicId: 1443
userId: 123051087
---

Liogab11, Myaleee, Zhenyu--
 
 
 
Liogab11:  I also believe that the full version of 18 Steps should be
made accessible to those who wish to learn Glosa this way. It will also
be a great supplement to the online lessons.
 
-> Only a few pages have been dropped in the Internet version.  These
pages dealt with some short forms of words people wanted dropped because
they were ambiguous; for example: -MO (short for MOBILI) was used to mean
furniture, but MO can also mean "one" or "first."  SEDI-MO can mean
"chair" ("sit-furniture") or "first sitting."  Originally there were 18
of these short forms-- that's why there were "18 Steps."  I believe this
book-- along with practice and thinking-- is sufficient for most
situations.
 
 
 
 
Myaleee:  Changes to confusing partes of  glosa grammar has been
suggested a million times in past, to no avail! This is deplorable,  for
glosa is pretty! 
 
->  This is the problem.  We cannot make one million changes to Glosa! 
People who never used Glosa made most of the suggestions.  It has been
very rare that even two people agreed on one change.  There was a lot of
arguing.
 
->  U-ci es un exakti problema.  Na ne pote face mono miliona muta a
Glosa!  Plu homi; qi ne uti Glosa, pa face poli postula.  Pa es forti
no-freqe; bi homi pa dice akorda de klu mono muta.  Pa es poli disputa.
 
->  Yes, Glosa is like a pretty song on the radio.  One person says,
"It's my song!"  Another person says, "No, it's my song!"
 
->  Ja, Glosa es homo u kali kanta ex radio.  Uno pe dice; "U-la es mi
kanta!"  Un hetero dice; "No, mi kanta!"
 
 
 
Zhenyu:  Mi pa no-memo nara u ra; qi es "es, habe, nu, fu, pa, este,
gene, detekti, etc." habe poli posi okasio esce nima-, akti-, deskribe-,
e mode-lexi in uno status.
Exp: Teo es= un es de Teo   semani: God's being = the being of god.
Teo es es reali.= Un es de Teo es veri   semani: God's being is real.=
the being of god is real.

Id es reali.  semani:  It's real  or It's reality.  ???
Mi doxo:  Id es reali.   debi semani: It's real.  Anti-co,  "Id es un
reali."  alo "Id es reali-ra"   debi semani: "It's reality".
Qe mi korekti?
 
->  Ja, u-ci es pleisto korekti.  U REALI es u maxi facili de semani
"reality."  Anti-co -RA habe u fo-generali semani.  Es ma boni; ne puta
de u verba "fini-ra," sed adi u difere verba.  "Reality" posi es U REALI
STATO, U STATO DE REALI, U REALI QALITA, U REALI MODE, e tali plus.



"U stupidi-pe dice; es zero Teo."  (Plu Sofi Frase, Kristo Bibli)



Saluta,
_ _
/.
/\   Gary
##
____________________________________________________________
Free Penny Stock Alerts
Join our free newsletter and get stock alerts that gain up to 3550%!
http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/4bd1067eb85e01a434m06duc

