---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhyM3JjbCtpZWl0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1446
msgSnippet: I have concluded all the ideas to make Glosa even more precise as below.
  Maybe I can call it Munda-glosa or Exakti-Glosa . -gi,gi-=(-fe,fe-):auxi-gi=female
nextInTime: 1447
nextInTopic: 1448
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1272279253'
prevInTime: 1445
prevInTopic: 0
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 00RbZcxPLTovvXVcRTfuW7aZc05bwnKYYwDKazxPka_C6-cJ1p9chtoYzEpOJr-QNP79VBqrYMwyduvoJ3kyfxXDulGhCNZTVfs
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: Munda-Glosa
topicId: 1446
userId: 420932182
---

I have concluded all the ideas to make Glosa even more precise as below. Ma=
ybe I can call it "Munda-glosa" or "Exakti-Glosa".
  
-gi,gi-=3D(-fe,fe-):a=
uxi-gi=3Dfemale helper, auxi fe=3Dhelp her; gi-bovi=3Dfemale
ox(cow), bovi-=
gi=3Dcow girl; Fe auxi an=3Dshe helps him. {"gi" derives from "GIna"=3Dwoma=
n}

-ro,ro-=3D(-an,an-):auxi-ro=3Dmale helper, auxi an=3Dhelp him; ro-bovi=
=3Dmale ox(bull),
bovi-ro=3Dcow boy; An auxi fe=3Dhe helps her.{"ro" derive=
s from "andRO"=3Dman}

-pe remains the original usage: auxi-pe=3Dhelper
pu=
=3D(pe): auxi pu=3Dhelp people; pu dice=3Dpeople say {"pu" derives from "po=
PUla"=3Dpeople, population}

Hereby, we can distinguish gi, ro, pe from fe,=
 an, pu quite easily and clearly by ear.
*I ever considered about the place=
 of "-ro e -gi", if I put them at back as "bovi-gi=3Dfemale ox, cow", then =
I have to use "bovi-homi-gi" to express "cow woman", this will get longer a=
nd more words for it. So I still think "gi-bovi=3Dfemale ox(cow), bovi-gi=
=3Dcow girl" is better e shorter!  We can go on discussing on this!

From t=
hose on:

-ri=3D(-ma) meaning matter and material. Because the "ma" meaning=
 "more" has been defined. "ri" derives from "mateRIa". Exp: bio-ri=3D(bio-m=
a) living thing,
bibe-ri=3D(bibe-ma) drink(s)

-ti=3D(-te) meaning textile =
and cloth. Because the same "te" also shortened for "tende", defined. "ri" =
derives from "texTIli". Exp: pedi-ti=3D(pedi-te) socks,
tabla-ti=3D(tabla-t=
e) table cloth

-ca=3D(-ka) meaning a room. Because the same "ka" also shor=
tened for "kausa", defined. "ca" derives from "CAmbra(=3Dkamera)" which isn=
't in the GID but I, for
this, strongly advise to add it in. Exp: kuko-ca=
=3D(kuko-ka) kitchen, kli-ca=3D(kli-ka) Bedroom. (* I ever thought about "-=
lu (derives from voLUmi)" which also means "room" among all its meanings, b=
ut the "room" here means "space", I don't know whether -lu could be OK)    =
"-ca" now is decided to use by me!
 
un: replaces u(n)     "un" meaning "a"=
 of English   
ad: replaces a(d)    Exp: ad mi =3D a mi (very similar to AM=
I by eari); ad na =3D a na (very similar to ANA by ear); ad vi =3D a vi (ve=
ry similar to AVI by ear); 
kon: replaces ko(n)    kon mi,  kon an; kon-fac=
e, kon-ergo
non: replaces no(n)   non-beli, non-ami      I suggest use "ne"=
 replacing "no". Exp: Qe fe es beli? Ne, fe ne es beli. Ja alo ne?  Or, we =
can especially use "NO" like "JA" which is only for answers. Exp: Qe fe es =
beli? No, fe es non-beli.  Try to feel: No, beli!(No, beautiful!) and Non-b=
eli(Ugly!). The old forms are similar to each other. Exp: No, beli and No-b=
eli.
le:   means   "the"   un-le feli=3D le feli(the cat), un-la feli(that =
cat), tri-le feli or le tri feli=3D the three cats, tri-la feli=3D those th=
ree cats.("la tri feili" doesn't mean "those 3 cats", but "there three cats=
". so I insist on "tri-le" not "le tri" for regularity.)
U, A, KO, NO could=
 be short forms, if you still like to use them as the original way of Glosa=
. 

*-mo: Remained. 
 
*mon(mono)=3D one /  num-mon=3Dfirst  (literaly deri=
ves "number one"); nume(ra) mon=3Dnumber one.
bi=3Dtwo  /  num-bi=3D second=

tri=3Dthree /  num-tri=3Dthird
tet(tetra)=3Dfour /  num-tet=3Dfourth
pen(p=
enta)=3Dfive /  num-pen=3Dfifth
six(sixa)=3Dsix /  num-six=3Dsixth
*sep(set=
i,septi)=3Dseven /  num-sep=3Dseventh
ok(okto)=3Deight /  num-ok=3Deighth
*=
nev,nona  /  num-nev or num-nona=3Dninth    the use of NEV is for it's shor=
t. Nona could be shortened as "non" which is for "no(n)".
mon-ze,dek(deka)=
=3Dten /  num-mon-ze or num-dek=3Dtenth
bi-ze=3Dtwenty /  num-bi-ze=3Dtwent=
ieth
mon-ze-ze,hekto=3Dhundred, / num-mon-ze-ze,num-hekto=3Dhundredth
mon-z=
e-bi=3D101 / num-mon-ze-bi=3D101th 
Qo-num=3D Qo nume/numera (How many)    =
  Qo-num is much shorter than the old.
Prefer using the former numerals for=
 they are short.  "num" is a new way to form the ordinals. Also we can stil=
l use the original forms. Exp: le bibli mon(the book one)=3Dle num-mon bibl=
i (the first book); le impresi mon de bi =3D le num-bi num-mon bibli (the s=
econd first impression); le bi impresi mon=3D le bi num-mon impresi(the two=
 first impressions)   
 
In order to make the grammar clearer, every noun h=
ad better follow "un", "le", number, or quantity words. (If the word as a n=
oun is obvious, the "UN" before it may be dropped. ) 
 Exp: 
un kanta=3D a =
song,   
tri kanta=3Dthree songs,
mi un/plu kanta=3Dmy song(s), 
mi tri kan=
ta=3Dmy three songs,
pan kanta=3Dall songs
poli kanta=3Dmany songs
 
mi kan=
ta=3D I sing
mi kanta-ra=3Dmy singing        "ra" similar to "-ec-" of Monl=
ango and "-ing" of English.
 
kanta=3Dto sing and singing.    
he kanta=3D =
sing!    "he" similar to "-ez" of Mondlango. Comparing: Tom kanta.=3DTom si=
ngs; Tom he kanta!=3DTom, sing!
 
"i": deriving from "iso", indicating the =
two words between "i" are appositives. Exp:
Mi i robota=3D I, robot        =
  Comparing to the original: Mi, robota
Mi (un) robota=3D my robot    Compa=
ring to the original: Mi robota
"o": indicating the word after "o" is vocat=
ive. Exp:
Mi amo tu, o papa!=3D I like you, (Oh) dad!      Comparing to the=
 original: Mi amo tu, papa! 
Mi amo tu (un) papa.=3D I like your dad.      =
     Comparing to the original: Mi amo tu papa.
 
"-" could be elided.  Exp=
: Bovi gi=3DCow girl,  Gi bovi=3DCow.    Mon ze tri/ hekto tri=3D103
 
Abov=
e all, any original form of Glosa could be accepted in Munda-glosa! Munda-g=
losa can solve any problem with its new forms !

What do you think? 
Saluta=
!
Li Zhenyu 



