---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGhyM3JjbCtpZWl0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGhyNW9qZyttanFyQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1448
msgSnippet: "U STI-KOREKTI e PLU INDIKA: \xA1\xB0Nona could be shortened as non which\
  \ is for no(n) .\xA1\xB1 lost not . It ought to be: Nona could NOT be shortened\
  \ as non ,"
nextInTime: 1449
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1272341936'
prevInTime: 1447
prevInTopic: 1446
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 27N6-bT8-QuOdtcULVUgqRYdOfUrNgqCBUknb5mW55YO_a37zkZEoJNA58lAwilrnvG8p-BkrtaJ2v3bjUf2cyyIdS1zeQv2z1w
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Munda-Glosa (U STI-KOREKTI e PLU INDIKA)'
topicId: 1446
userId: 420932182
---

U STI-KOREKTI e PLU INDIKA:
=A1=B0Nona could be shortened as "non" which is=
 for "no(n)".=A1=B1 lost "not". It ought to be:
Nona could NOT be shortened=
 as "non", because which is already for "no(n)".

*-mo: Remained. Sedi-mo=
=3DChair  (Sedi mon=3D first sitting) 

*set(seti),*sep(septi)=3Dseven /  n=
um-sep=3Dseventh

he kanta=3D sing!    "he" similar to "-ez" of Mondlango. =
Comparing: Tom kanta.=3DTom sings; Tom he kanta!=3DTom, sing! "HE" sounds l=
ike "Hey!" "Tom he kanta" could be understood as "Tom,Hey!Sing!"




--- In=
 glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Zhenyu" <lizhenyu_god@...> wrote:
>
> I have c=
oncluded all the ideas to make Glosa even more precise as below. Maybe I ca=
n call it "Munda-glosa" or "Exakti-Glosa".
>   
> -gi,gi-=3D(-fe,fe-):auxi-=
gi=3Dfemale helper, auxi fe=3Dhelp her; gi-bovi=3Dfemale
> ox(cow), bovi-gi=
=3Dcow girl; Fe auxi an=3Dshe helps him. {"gi" derives from "GIna"=3Dwoman}=

> 
> -ro,ro-=3D(-an,an-):auxi-ro=3Dmale helper, auxi an=3Dhelp him; ro-bov=
i=3Dmale ox(bull),
> bovi-ro=3Dcow boy; An auxi fe=3Dhe helps her.{"ro" der=
ives from "andRO"=3Dman}
> 
> -pe remains the original usage: auxi-pe=3Dhel=
per
> pu=3D(pe): auxi pu=3Dhelp people; pu dice=3Dpeople say {"pu" derives =
from "poPUla"=3Dpeople, population}
> 
> Hereby, we can distinguish gi, ro,=
 pe from fe, an, pu quite easily and clearly by ear.
> *I ever considered a=
bout the place of "-ro e -gi", if I put them at back as "bovi-gi=3Dfemale o=
x, cow", then I have to use "bovi-homi-gi" to express "cow woman", this wil=
l get longer and more words for it. So I still think "gi-bovi=3Dfemale ox(c=
ow), bovi-gi=3Dcow girl" is better e shorter!  We can go on discussing on t=
his!
> 
> From those on:
> 
> -ri=3D(-ma) meaning matter and material. Beca=
use the "ma" meaning "more" has been defined. "ri" derives from "mateRIa". =
Exp: bio-ri=3D(bio-ma) living thing,
> bibe-ri=3D(bibe-ma) drink(s)
> 
> -t=
i=3D(-te) meaning textile and cloth. Because the same "te" also shortened f=
or "tende", defined. "ri" derives from "texTIli". Exp: pedi-ti=3D(pedi-te) =
socks,
> tabla-ti=3D(tabla-te) table cloth
> 
> -ca=3D(-ka) meaning a room.=
 Because the same "ka" also shortened for "kausa", defined. "ca" derives fr=
om "CAmbra(=3Dkamera)" which isn't in the GID but I, for
> this, strongly a=
dvise to add it in. Exp: kuko-ca=3D(kuko-ka) kitchen, kli-ca=3D(kli-ka) Bed=
room. (* I ever thought about "-lu (derives from voLUmi)" which also means =
"room" among all its meanings, but the "room" here means "space", I don't k=
now whether -lu could be OK)    "-ca" now is decided to use by me!
>  
> un=
: replaces u(n)     "un" meaning "a" of English   
> ad: replaces a(d)    E=
xp: ad mi =3D a mi (very similar to AMI by eari); ad na =3D a na (very simi=
lar to ANA by ear); ad vi =3D a vi (very similar to AVI by ear); 
> kon: re=
places ko(n)    kon mi,  kon an; kon-face, kon-ergo
> non: replaces no(n)  =
 non-beli, non-ami      I suggest use "ne" replacing "no". Exp: Qe fe es be=
li? Ne, fe ne es beli. Ja alo ne?  Or, we can especially use "NO" like "JA"=
 which is only for answers. Exp: Qe fe es beli? No, fe es non-beli.  Try to=
 feel: No, beli!(No, beautiful!) and Non-beli(Ugly!). The old forms are sim=
ilar to each other. Exp: No, beli and No-beli.
> le:   means   "the"   un-l=
e feli=3D le feli(the cat), un-la feli(that cat), tri-le feli or le tri fel=
i=3D the three cats, tri-la feli=3D those three cats.("la tri feili" doesn'=
t mean "those 3 cats", but "there three cats". so I insist on "tri-le" not =
"le tri" for regularity.)
> U, A, KO, NO could be short forms, if you still=
 like to use them as the original way of Glosa. 
> 
> *-mo: Remained. Sedi-=
mo=3DChair  (Sedi mon=3D first sitting) 
>  
> *mon(mono)=3D one /  num-mon=
=3Dfirst  (literaly derives "number one"); nume(ra) mon=3Dnumber one.
> bi=
=3Dtwo  /  num-bi=3D second
> tri=3Dthree /  num-tri=3Dthird
> tet(tetra)=
=3Dfour /  num-tet=3Dfourth
> pen(penta)=3Dfive /  num-pen=3Dfifth
> six(si=
xa)=3Dsix /  num-six=3Dsixth
> *set(seti),*sep(septi)=3Dseven /  num-sep=3D=
seventh
> ok(okto)=3Deight /  num-ok=3Deighth
> *nev,nona  /  num-nev or nu=
m-nona=3Dninth    the use of NEV is for it's short. Nona could be shortened=
 as "non" which is for "no(n)".
> mon-ze,dek(deka)=3Dten /  num-mon-ze or n=
um-dek=3Dtenth
> bi-ze=3Dtwenty /  num-bi-ze=3Dtwentieth
> mon-ze-ze,hekto=
=3Dhundred, / num-mon-ze-ze,num-hekto=3Dhundredth
> mon-ze-bi=3D101 / num-m=
on-ze-bi=3D101th 
> Qo-num=3D Qo nume/numera (How many)      Qo-num is much=
 shorter than the old.
> Prefer using the former numerals for they are shor=
t.  "num" is a new way to form the ordinals. Also we can still use the orig=
inal forms. Exp: le bibli mon(the book one)=3Dle num-mon bibli (the first b=
ook); le impresi mon de bi =3D le num-bi num-mon bibli (the second first im=
pression); le bi impresi mon=3D le bi num-mon impresi(the two first impress=
ions)   
>  
> In order to make the grammar clearer, every noun had better =
follow "un", "le", number, or quantity words. (If the word as a noun is obv=
ious, the "UN" before it may be dropped. ) 
>  Exp: 
> un kanta=3D a song, =
  
> tri kanta=3Dthree songs,
> mi un/plu kanta=3Dmy song(s), 
> mi tri kan=
ta=3Dmy three songs,
> pan kanta=3Dall songs
> poli kanta=3Dmany songs
>  
=
> mi kanta=3D I sing
> mi kanta-ra=3Dmy singing        "ra" similar to "-ec=
-" of Monlango and "-ing" of English.
>  
> kanta=3Dto sing and singing.   =
 
> he kanta=3D sing!    "he" similar to "-ez" of Mondlango. Comparing: Tom=
 kanta.=3DTom sings; Tom he kanta!=3DTom, sing!
>  
> "i": deriving from "i=
so", indicating the two words between "i" are appositives. Exp:
> Mi i robo=
ta=3D I, robot          Comparing to the original: Mi, robota
> Mi (un) rob=
ota=3D my robot    Comparing to the original: Mi robota
> "o": indicating t=
he word after "o" is vocative. Exp:
> Mi amo tu, o papa!=3D I like you, (Oh=
) dad!      Comparing to the original: Mi amo tu, papa! 
> Mi amo tu (un) p=
apa.=3D I like your dad.           Comparing to the original: Mi amo tu pap=
a.
>  
> "-" could be elided.  Exp: Bovi gi=3DCow girl,  Gi bovi=3DCow.    =
Mon ze tri/ hekto tri=3D103
>  
> Above all, any original form of Glosa cou=
ld be accepted in Munda-glosa! Munda-glosa can solve any problem with its n=
ew forms !
> 
> What do you think? 
> Saluta!
> Li Zhenyu
>



