---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGJmNDFpdis0YThnQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwNzI1MTUzNzMyLjAwNzMxNTA4QHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 145
msgSnippet: '... **  Hi Paul and others in the Glosa moiety, I write in English for
  haste. Main Prob: Our centralised authority connection is weak:- i. Wendy Ashby
  is not'
nextInTime: 146
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1059111452'
prevInTime: 144
prevInTopic: 129
profile: bliminus_107_ssaass
replyTo: LIST
senderId: cZhxebGXdStNJksLiOKdAay1jAtoLpL85zkhgN9nNByV3uLx7KBrh5ywSkS-2Txd6v8DljndmSSl_zwAAe4_m6WJOnIg1omP1G0yTS23HTTcL6V-gg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Buying Glosa Books'
topicId: 129
userId: 147970330
---

At 05:21 PM 7/16/03 -0000, Paul Easton wrote:
>In the Internet age I find the recent discussion about how to 
>purchase Glosa books strange.  There are so many ways in which 
>selling the books from England to buyers in other contries could be 
>accomplished without sending cash in the mail or paying exhorbinant 
>bank fees for international money orders.
>
>Two options, which I have personally used, are Paypal and Amazon 
>Marketplace.
>
**  Hi Paul and others in the Glosa moiety,
    I write in English for haste.
    Main Prob: Our centralised authority connection is weak:-
                 i. Wendy Ashby is not online, and is limited somewhat
                      by arthritis, and small income.
                ii. If the GEO charity holds the money to set up a very
                      small bookstore, it could be used to set up an 
                      Internet-based branch office probably in America.
               iii. A slightly more affluent Glosalist subscriber might
                      volunteer to hold stock; or Glosa-pe in different 
                      countries could hold very small stocks to service
                      local purchase orders.
                iv. I will eventually be able to find cash for a book
                      collection, but imagine that a trustee in the US
                      would need to physically hold the books.
                 v. Wendy will get a letter from me with the net sale
                      idea, and I will ask her for suggestions.
                vi. A Glosalist Co-operative could be formed with
                      contributors in different countries, each
                      receiving regular statements of developments.
                      Once established it, should prove self-funding. 

>Paypal <http://www.paypal.com/> allows you to easily set up an 
>account that will allow you to accept credit card payments.  It is 
>used commonly by vendors at Ebay, for example, but is also an 
>inexpensive way to establish secure on-line ordering from a personal 
>Web-page.  Paypal makes money by taking a small commission from every 
>sale, but for small businesses and personal use, it is well worth it.
>
**  Personally, I tried setting up a Paypal account, but kept getting the
website run-around, so scrubbed the idea.  Nowadays, I buy directly from
vendors, and have been successful using a Debit VISA account. 

>Amazon's  vendor accounts work in a similar way.  Go to 
>http://www.amazon.com/ and click on the "Sell Your Stuff" button near 
>the top of the page.
>
**  I will certainly try this to see if it works in Australia.

>Glosa's publisher should really set up an Amazon account to simplify 
>and modernize the ordering process.  It is simple and cheap to do.  
>
** If Amazon works for me, it could be adapted for a 'non-profit
co-operative' to sell Glosa books anywhere.  I do not think we have any
commercial booksellers in the Glosalist group.
 
>If I thought that there was enough interest, I might consider buying 
>Glosa materials in bulk and selling them through my Amazon account or 
>on one of my Web pages at a mark-up sufficient to cover my costs, but 
>I am hesitant to invest much money purchasing boxes of books if they 
>are likely to gather dust in a closet.  
>
**  This is an unknown.
    However, it might depend on us.  Were the Glosalist a fun place to be,
more would subscribe.  So, with Gary's and Sid's stories, and probably a
Glosa Ezine coming out regularly - between hard-copy editions of _Plu Glosa
Nota_ - demonstrations of Glosa in action is likely to stimulate more
interest.

&&  And, I must say that our present catalogue is rather short.
    The present publications list comprises three books:-
        Glosa 1000 - wordlist
        Glosa 6000 Dictionary
        18 Steps to Fluency in Euroglosa

    An audio-cassette collection could be made up fairly quickly, with
hardcopy version of the spoken words; and, for the Unconnected, 3.5in
Floppy Disks of website contents and the Glosa Internet Dictionary ccould
be made available for the cost of the blank disks and the postage.

    However, the list is still in need of enlarging.  We still lack a
Desktop Publishing version of a Glosa Learners' Dictionary; also, more
easy-reading material ought to be available.  We could set up a publishing
committee, with Wendy ex-officio: by agreeing on some form of
standardisation, and an editing process, such a committee would ensure that
each person holding published materials was happy to promote the entire
catalogue.

>If there are any Glosa enthusiasts in New York City, perhaps we could 
>discuss pooling funds to help distribute materials in the United 
>States.  
>
**  Gary Miller has already mooted such a development, and I imagine that
you, Paul, would become involved if the planning seemed professional.  My
guess is that Marcel would carry a small stock of publications in Germany,
and I would do the same in Australia.
    The concept of "distributed publishing" comes to mind, with experienced
Glosa-pe in the various countries wishing to lend support to the
distributtion system .. especially when more publications in a wider range
of national languages are generated.

    If necessary, and it probably would be, I could set up another List,
possibly called <glosa-publica@yahoogroups.com>, as a place to discuss the
development of the publication network plus expansion of the catalogue.

NOTE: At present, there is no profit to be made from publishing Glosa
titles - except for what Wendy gets for items sold through the GEO charity.
      BUT, when Glosa goes global there will be a publishing business set
up - unfortunately too late to benefit Ron Clark.  This possibility is of
no significance to us now, and no time should be wasted in discussing it.
      HOWEVER, anyone writing, and retaining the copyright of,
instructional materials for Glosa might be doing themselves and the world a
favour.  The analogy is the difference between the immediate income of the
members of a pop band, and the long-term royalties collected by the person
who writes the band's songs.  Shorter stories written in Glosa will
probably be donated to the Glosa Education Organisation, as I seem to
remember my three children's stories were;
but, a longer labour, such as the preparing of learning materials - aimed
at a world readership - might not.

      In simple terms the above statement is called a CARROT.  Up to now,
the only instructional material is the _18 Steps to Fluency in Euroglosa_;
The Glosa Internet Dictionary (GID) is the only major work that has been
produced outside of Richmond, Middlesex, and thus, not associated with the
GEO.
      When will the Glosa group produce more books of instruction and of
readings?  If Glosa is ever to be ready for global adoption, somebody has
to write these things!  How will they be rewarded?  Is reward necessary to
stimulate production?
      At what stage in its development, prior to the language's being
launched worldwide, will Glosa need to acquire a business plan?  For a
start, I would imagine that a <glosa-publika@yahoogroups.com> Mailing List
would need to allow attachments, so that pictorial material, which was
intended for inclusion in instructional publications, could be discussed by
the proposed publishing committee.  

      Perhaps I am saying it is time for us to consider moving on from an
amateur organisation to a more professional one.

Saluta, 

Robin Gaskell


