---
authorName: Troy Lidberg
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Troy Lidberg &lt;shadowxsoul@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDU0MDkyOS4xNzA3OS5xbUB3ZWI1NzgwMS5tYWlsLnJlMy55YWhvby5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1470
msgSnippet: well i would love to, i ve actually had thoughts about making a glosa
  2 or glosa bi . but that s mostly because of my ideas of alternate grammar (which
nextInTime: 1471
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1274632131'
prevInTime: 1469
prevInTopic: 1469
profile: shadowxsoul
replyTo: LIST
senderId: KTVEBc3A2m2JaeKCpd1eE9NOYi_oidRjK1XsjPVba1HTCZkBJcZ8neKRi8J0s9apPSAftNGksg0N_a-Vq-w2DkIIZaclosJYwdrB
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] new to Glosa and I have questions'
topicId: 1466
userId: 333712717
---

well i would love to, i've actually had thoughts about making a 'glosa 2' o=
r 'glosa bi'. but that's mostly because of my ideas of alternate grammar (w=
hich isn't desperately necessary, it's just me interested in incorporating =
features i've seen in other languages and tried to use in my own failed aux=
lang, such as the lack of obligatory tense marking and removing the rule th=
at all sentences need to have a stated subject)
=A0
simply using alternate =
vocabulary words wouldn't classify as another language. judging by the larg=
e number of greek-based alternatives, i'm guessing someone=A0else has alrea=
dy tried to remedy the problem. it makes sense to use latin as the basis fo=
r the vocabulary, but latin was a highly ambiguous language, and it's obvio=
us that glosa inhereted alot of the language's ambiguities.
=A0
though hone=
stly, as a linguist myself who has obsessed over the idea of auxlangs (incl=
uding working on one of my own for years only to never accomplish anything)=
, i seriously doubt it could function as a global interlingua, though i do=
=A0agree it's probably the best attempt i've seen. i'm just learning it bec=
ause it's easy and pretty.
=A0
by the way, i just remembered something: fix=
ing the fact that the word for 'naked' is also the word for 'today'. that c=
ould be easily fixed without modifying the language. there's two main solut=
ions: use a new compound word: no-vesti or no-pa-vesti to mean 'naked' (lit=
erally 'undressed')instead or to simply say minus vesti (without clothes) l=
ike esperanto does (technically esperanto uses the compound word senvesta, =
but esperanto is a highly=A0agglutinating language where=A0virtually every =
word is a compound word=A0and glosa is an isolating language where most wor=
ds have no more than one morpheme).
=A0
you could potentially do stuff like=
 this to fix every ambiguity in the language, just conjure up work-arounds =
for all of them!


      

[Non-text portions of this message have been rem=
oved]


