---
authorName: Gary R Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary R Miller &lt;justi.miller@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMTAwNTIzLjE3MTczMC4zMDAwLjIuanVzdGkubWlsbGVyQGp1bm8uY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1472
msgSnippet: Karo Troy, I ve been studying Glosa [url=http://www.glosa.org/en/g18s.htm#S4]here[/url]
  for a day or two now and i like what i see, but i have a few questions,
nextInTime: 1473
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1274656650'
prevInTime: 1471
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: KLkjIXfjr9whV_tXYSMT4HbmhAtOA4eCVPwvmpgTjiUKX3ZhJ3Vzj4pjyYOGwSEOsYKX_XdUdhpOnyBkYRxfOek0-Z_dPJJH8fBn_Q
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Bene veni, Troy
topicId: 1472
userId: 123051087
---

Karo Troy,

I've been studying Glosa
[url=http://www.glosa.org/en/g18s.htm#S4]here[/url] for a day or two now
and i like what i see, but i have a few questions, mostly about the
vocabulary.

it seems to be sorta incomplete and ambiguous to me. for one i cant find
any words for clothing except for 'underwear' (???) which apparently is
also the word 'shirt' (??????). though i imagine some of them wouldn't be
too hard to conjure up (manu-ve, pedi-ve, nekto-ve, somni-ve etc...) it
doesn't appear to have a word for 'pants'. 

->  INTRA-VE should mean "underwear," not "shirt."  "Shirt" should be
SUPRA-TUNIKA, and I have also seen SUPRA-VE used--  This was probably the
original intent instead of INTRA-VE.  Thank you for pointing this out.

-> Hurray!  You're thinking like a fellow American!  Try looking up
"trousers" instead (PODA-VE).

another is the ambiguity i'm coming across. like for example, dictionary
here lists three different words for 'sleep': sopo, dormi, and somni.
even though the dictionary recommends only using somni, for some odd
reason the word for 'to go to sleep' is sit sopo. another odd when is
tura and trakto, both of which mean 'to pull' and both are recommended
equally (the dictionary has plus signs next to all the words to show
which ones are preferred).

->  Glosa, unlike some planned languages, has a STRUCTURED VOCABULARY as
well.  Any word root taken from a technical term can be used as a word in
Glosa.  Yes, SOMNI is preferred, and logically STI SOMNI would be
preferred to STI SOPO, but I can't say STI SOPO is wrong.

-> And, yes, the planning is not yet complete.  The Glosa Internet
Dictionary (GID) has very thoroughly been compiled from many different
Glosa textbooks, but still needs some refining.

-> One thing the texts have said so far is that the Greek roots (marked
with "G" in the GID) should be preferred over the Latin roots.  Regarding
TRAKTO (from Latin) vs. TIRA (derived from modern words)-- this still
needs to be worked out.  The tendency I have noticed so far is that
TRAKTO means "drag" and TIRA means "pull."

if you care, here's the dictionary I'm using, the main glosa page claims
it's the most comprehensive dictionary on the web for glosa:

[url]http://www.glosa.org/gid/engl.htm[/url]

-> Thank you for your interest in Glosa.  The GID is the largest and most
up-to-date dictionary.

is it really that reliable? the thing claims the word for 'left-handed'
is just 'laevo'.

->  This is correct.  Glosa words have very broad meanings.  To avoid
ambiguity, one may sometimes need to say for "left-handed", "U CEFA MANU
ES U LAEVO," or something similar.  Glosa uses words to communicate
rather than grammatical affixes, as some IAL's do; in other words, you
have to say what you mean.  (Hey, "left hand" in English doesn't
necessarily refer only to dexterity either!)

->  Information on ordering hard copies of Glosa books can be found at
_glosa.org_. 

Saluta,
_ _
/.
/\   Gary
##
____________________________________________________________
Artery Clearing Secret
Nobel Prize Winning discovery cuts artery plaque by incredible 50%.
http://thirdpartyoffers.juno.com/TGL3141/4bf9a956d30b0a129m06duc

