---
authorName: chris duncan
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: chris duncan &lt;krisdunncan@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGk0ZDdqditnaTloQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEFBTkxrVGk9cGVHSm5SMFg4OVY3PW1xUmFnb2ZUN1dRYlZtczNVN3JKPW5HcUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PGk0ZDV2Mys0NGlwQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPgk8aTRkN2p2K2dpOWhAZUdyb3Vwcy5jb20+
layout: email
msgId: 1530
msgSnippet: zhenyu...your new system for  tones in pinyin by using letters of the
  alphabet rather than tone marks above each word does not work for westerners ....the
nextInTime: 1531
nextInTopic: 1531
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1282621628'
prevInTime: 1529
prevInTopic: 1528
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 9uEQaL8cwn-7gwAvRUNujj0fV9eFCNeJTrmuclPaWW8OLSOqcoCoRZ5U2A0GlFwjxkj_2jdqeK2gnc6lLGiSainjrdJH2iEjPeok
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Newly Created Chinese Pinyin with Tone Markers'
topicId: 1526
userId: 459066750
---

zhenyu...your new system for  tones in pinyin by using letters of the
alpha=
bet rather than tone marks above each word does not work for westerners
...=
.the reason ?...every time a westerner sees a letter of the alphabet he
wan=
ts to give it the sound it has as either a consonant or vowel in that
alpha=
bet  eg:  n.i.l.m.e.n.  he wants to pronounce as n.i.l.m.e.n not
ni<men : w=
ol  as  w.o.l  not wo< (tone mark <) and the double vowel aa in
haanyul  he=
 wants to sound as h.a.a.n not han (tone mark \) chinese people
do not have=
 this problem because they are used to using a non phonetic
symbolic charac=
ter system, and they see each character as one complete sound
including the=
 tone that goes with it ,so they fail to see why westerners
cannot think al=
ong the same lines. the problem is psychological zhenyu not
phonetic. hope =
this comment is helpful. saluta c.d,

On 17 August 2010 06:44, Zhenyu <lizh=
enyu_god@...> wrote:

>
>
> Duncan heh DJ
> Nilmen haol! Qilng yoon=
g wol famihng de Biaodiaoo-Pinyin xiel Haanyul ba!
> Wol xialng kaankaan ni=
lmen nehngfoul zhalngwoo!
>
> Saluta!
> Lil Zheenyul(Li Zhenyu)
>
>
> --- I=
n glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40yahoogroups.com>, "Zhenyu"
> <lizh=
enyu_god@...> wrote:
> >
> > Hello, Dear friends,
> > In order to show tone=
s of Chinese Pinyin with tone markers for those who
> can write Pinyin, I c=
reated 3 tone markers added into the original forms of
> Pinyin which are a=
s follows:
> >
> > Plain Tone(/First Tone): Original
> > Exp: a, ao, -in, -=
ong
> >
> > Up Tone(/Second Tone): Last vowel letter of original + h
> > Ex=
p: ah, aoh, -ihn, -ohng
> >
> > Up-down Tone(/Third Tone): :Last vowel lett=
er of original + l
> > Exp: al, aol, -iln, -olng
> >
> > Down Tone(/Fourth =
Tone): Double the Last vowel letter of original
> > Exp: aa, aoo, -iin, -oo=
ng
> >
> > v instead of original "=A8=B9" (U with two dots above like Germa=
n)"
> >
> > Sentence Examples:
> > Original: Wo shi Zhongguoren, wo lai zi =
Beijing.
> > With Tone Markers:Wol shii Zhongguohrehn, wol laih zii Beiljin=
g.
> > English:I am Chinese, I come from Beijing.
> >
> > Spe;u-ci neo sti-=
ma-boni Pinyin fu auxi ma-poli ami;qi du stude e uti
> Cina-lingua!
> >
> >=
 Hope this newly improved Pinyin will help more friends who are learning
> =
and using Chinese!
> >
> > Xiwaang zheegee xin-gailjiin de Pinyin jiang ban=
gzhuu geeng duo
> zheengzaii xuehxih heh shilyoong Haanyul de pehngyoul.
> =
> (Xiwang zhege xin-gaijin de Pinyin jiang bangzhu geng duo zhengzai xuexi
=
> he shiyong Hanyu de pengyou.)
> >
> > Saluta!
> > Li Zhenyu
> >
>
>  
>

=


-- 
C. D .


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


