---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PEFBTkxrVGk9cGVHSm5SMFg4OVY3PW1xUmFnb2ZUN1dRYlZtczNVN3JKPW5HcUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGk1NHJzZys5Y3NrQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1531
msgSnippet: Dear Duncan, Sorry for my absence recently due to my work and personal
  things getting busy! Thanks a lot for your reply on my new Pinyin system. I knew
  earlier
nextInTime: 1532
nextInTopic: 1532
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1282798288'
prevInTime: 1530
prevInTopic: 1530
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Hutdibs084AxyPGmARwP4aPRLuxz096WpdLWdWLHskMBHvmQaj_DtJRNhpJpc9S8w2Uqz2XOCD4d8d1VF0HIYmoWyL-B_ASjjRQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Newly Created Chinese Pinyin with Tone Markers'
topicId: 1526
userId: 420932182
---

Dear Duncan,
Sorry for my absence recently due to my work and personal thin=
gs getting busy!

Thanks a lot for your reply on my new Pinyin system. I kn=
ew earlier about what people, specially westerners, would think about it! T=
he system has been considered some common rules of several main western lan=
guages like English, Germen, French, Spanish, etc.. 

Eg: 
"-l" after vowel=
s like in "al" for "a" in Down-up Tone, derives from the English spelling s=
uch as "calm, palm, talk, Lincoln,etc." in which "L" doesn't sound and can =
be used for the Down-up tone. In spite of some westerners possibly will pro=
nounce it as "l" in the way of German, Spanish, Italian, etc., which won't =
make a clear influence like English "l" as in "all", Chinese native speaker=
s won't be confused by hearing the sound "l" after vowels and Chinese learn=
ers also should know "l" there, for tone, does not sound like "cALm, tALk, =
and LincOLn" 

"aa" (for Down tone) is often used in sounding the same "a o=
r its long sound A:" in lots of western languages. Maybe you didn't note th=
at in the current Pinyin, we take "Shaanxi Province"(west of Shanxi Provinc=
e) to differ from "Shanxi", which is because the original Pinyin without to=
ne marks in most ways, functions too bad and can't differ words in the same=
 souds with defferent tones! So the Government takes the only exceptional f=
orm like "aa" to solve the CONFUSION. Tone marks are not easy to show in mo=
st ways in reality.  

"ah" (for Up tone) is often widely in western langua=
ges. Eg: English:Fahrenheit, German: Wahl mit Qual. "H" is a non sound lett=
er in almost all Romanic languages.  "Ah! my god!" "Oh! dear!" 

"v" for "=
=A8=B9" is already used in Chinese character inputing on computer, so I use=
 it along the mode happened. I personally like using "eu" for "=A8=B9", but=
 I worry about most Chinese people being accustomed in using "v".

Saluta!
=
Lil Zheenyul(Li Zhenyu) 

 
--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, chris duncan =
<krisdunncan@...> wrote:
>
> zhenyu...your new system for  tones in pinyin =
by using letters of the
> alphabet rather than tone marks above each word d=
oes not work for westerners
> ....the reason ?...every time a westerner see=
s a letter of the alphabet he
> wants to give it the sound it has as either=
 a consonant or vowel in that
> alphabet  eg:  n.i.l.m.e.n.  he wants to pr=
onounce as n.i.l.m.e.n not
> ni<men : wol  as  w.o.l  not wo< (tone mark <)=
 and the double vowel aa in
> haanyul  he wants to sound as h.a.a.n not han=
 (tone mark \) chinese people
> do not have this problem because they are u=
sed to using a non phonetic
> symbolic character system, and they see each =
character as one complete sound
> including the tone that goes with it ,so =
they fail to see why westerners
> cannot think along the same lines. the pr=
oblem is psychological zhenyu not
> phonetic. hope this comment is helpful.=
 saluta c.d,
> 
> On 17 August 2010 06:44, Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@...> wrote:=

> 
> >
> >
> > Duncan heh DJ
> > Nilmen haol! Qilng yoong wol famihng de B=
iaodiaoo-Pinyin xiel Haanyul ba!
> > Wol xialng kaankaan nilmen nehngfoul z=
halngwoo!
> >
> > Saluta!
> > Lil Zheenyul(Li Zhenyu)
> >
> >
> > --- In gl=
osalist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40yahoogroups.com>, "Zhenyu"
> > <lizhen=
yu_god@> wrote:
> > >
> > > Hello, Dear friends,
> > > In order to show ton=
es of Chinese Pinyin with tone markers for those who
> > can write Pinyin, =
I created 3 tone markers added into the original forms of
> > Pinyin which =
are as follows:
> > >
> > > Plain Tone(/First Tone): Original
> > > Exp: a,=
 ao, -in, -ong
> > >
> > > Up Tone(/Second Tone): Last vowel letter of orig=
inal + h
> > > Exp: ah, aoh, -ihn, -ohng
> > >
> > > Up-down Tone(/Third To=
ne): :Last vowel letter of original + l
> > > Exp: al, aol, -iln, -olng
> >=
 >
> > > Down Tone(/Fourth Tone): Double the Last vowel letter of original
=
> > > Exp: aa, aoo, -iin, -oong
> > >
> > > v instead of original "=A8=B9" =
(U with two dots above like German)"
> > >
> > > Sentence Examples:
> > > O=
riginal: Wo shi Zhongguoren, wo lai zi Beijing.
> > > With Tone Markers:Wol=
 shii Zhongguohrehn, wol laih zii Beiljing.
> > > English:I am Chinese, I c=
ome from Beijing.
> > >
> > > Spe;u-ci neo sti-ma-boni Pinyin fu auxi ma-po=
li ami;qi du stude e uti
> > Cina-lingua!
> > >
> > > Hope this newly impro=
ved Pinyin will help more friends who are learning
> > and using Chinese!
>=
 > >
> > > Xiwaang zheegee xin-gailjiin de Pinyin jiang bangzhuu geeng duo
=
> > zheengzaii xuehxih heh shilyoong Haanyul de pehngyoul.
> > > (Xiwang zh=
ege xin-gaijin de Pinyin jiang bangzhu geng duo zhengzai xuexi
> > he shiyo=
ng Hanyu de pengyou.)
> > >
> > > Saluta!
> > > Li Zhenyu
> > >
> >
> >  
>=
 >
> 
> 
> 
> -- 
> C. D .
> 
> 
> [Non-text portions of this message have =
been removed]
>



