---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGk1NHJzZys5Y3NrQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGk1NHNoMCtldmlrQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1532
msgSnippet: 'ah (for Up tone) is often widely in western languages. Eg: English:Fahrenheit,
  German: sohn, nehmen.'
nextInTime: 1533
nextInTopic: 1535
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1282798944'
prevInTime: 1531
prevInTopic: 1531
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 0HJLmR5YURNyWD39odvhibkQuS5rSPKspW_Kfyk1_gwPcgdtXB2o9o4Q_WO0iRdgQuJ0LbSlbA4tMKldyXP-srBXxgcgXl_TtlM
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Newly Created Chinese Pinyin with Tone Markers'
topicId: 1526
userId: 420932182
---

"ah" (for Up tone) is often widely in western languages. Eg: English:Fahren=
heit,
German: sohn, nehmen.

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Zhenyu" <li=
zhenyu_god@...> wrote:
>
> Dear Duncan,
> Sorry for my absence recently due=
 to my work and personal things getting busy!
> 
> Thanks a lot for your re=
ply on my new Pinyin system. I knew earlier about what people, specially we=
sterners, would think about it! The system has been considered some common =
rules of several main western languages like English, Germen, French, Spani=
sh, etc.. 
> 
> Eg: 
> "-l" after vowels like in "al" for "a" in Down-up To=
ne, derives from the English spelling such as "calm, palm, talk, Lincoln,et=
c." in which "L" doesn't sound and can be used for the Down-up tone. In spi=
te of some westerners possibly will pronounce it as "l" in the way of Germa=
n, Spanish, Italian, etc., which won't make a clear influence like English =
"l" as in "all", Chinese native speakers won't be confused by hearing the s=
ound "l" after vowels and Chinese learners also should know "l" there, for =
tone, does not sound like "cALm, tALk, and LincOLn" 
> 
> "aa" (for Down to=
ne) is often used in sounding the same "a or its long sound A:" in lots of =
western languages. Maybe you didn't note that in the current Pinyin, we tak=
e "Shaanxi Province"(west of Shanxi Province) to differ from "Shanxi", whic=
h is because the original Pinyin without tone marks in most ways, functions=
 too bad and can't differ words in the same souds with defferent tones! So =
the Government takes the only exceptional form like "aa" to solve the CONFU=
SION. Tone marks are not easy to show in most ways in reality.  
> 
> "ah" =
(for Up tone) is often widely in western languages. Eg: English:Fahrenheit,=
 German: Wahl mit Qual. "H" is a non sound letter in almost all Romanic lan=
guages.  "Ah! my god!" "Oh! dear!" 
> 
> "v" for "=A8=B9" is already used i=
n Chinese character inputing on computer, so I use it along the mode happen=
ed. I personally like using "eu" for "=A8=B9", but I worry about most Chine=
se people being accustomed in using "v".
> 
> Saluta!
> Lil Zheenyul(Li Zhe=
nyu) 
> 
>  
> --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, chris duncan <krisdunncan@=
> wrote:
> >
> > zhenyu...your new system for  tones in pinyin by using let=
ters of the
> > alphabet rather than tone marks above each word does not wo=
rk for westerners
> > ....the reason ?...every time a westerner sees a lett=
er of the alphabet he
> > wants to give it the sound it has as either a con=
sonant or vowel in that
> > alphabet  eg:  n.i.l.m.e.n.  he wants to pronou=
nce as n.i.l.m.e.n not
> > ni<men : wol  as  w.o.l  not wo< (tone mark <) a=
nd the double vowel aa in
> > haanyul  he wants to sound as h.a.a.n not han=
 (tone mark \) chinese people
> > do not have this problem because they are=
 used to using a non phonetic
> > symbolic character system, and they see e=
ach character as one complete sound
> > including the tone that goes with i=
t ,so they fail to see why westerners
> > cannot think along the same lines=
. the problem is psychological zhenyu not
> > phonetic. hope this comment i=
s helpful. saluta c.d,
> > 
> > On 17 August 2010 06:44, Zhenyu <lizhenyu_g=
od@> wrote:
> > 
> > >
> > >
> > > Duncan heh DJ
> > > Nilmen haol! Qilng y=
oong wol famihng de Biaodiaoo-Pinyin xiel Haanyul ba!
> > > Wol xialng kaan=
kaan nilmen nehngfoul zhalngwoo!
> > >
> > > Saluta!
> > > Lil Zheenyul(Li =
Zhenyu)
> > >
> > >
> > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40yah=
oogroups.com>, "Zhenyu"
> > > <lizhenyu_god@> wrote:
> > > >
> > > > Hello,=
 Dear friends,
> > > > In order to show tones of Chinese Pinyin with tone m=
arkers for those who
> > > can write Pinyin, I created 3 tone markers added=
 into the original forms of
> > > Pinyin which are as follows:
> > > >
> > =
> > Plain Tone(/First Tone): Original
> > > > Exp: a, ao, -in, -ong
> > > >=

> > > > Up Tone(/Second Tone): Last vowel letter of original + h
> > > > E=
xp: ah, aoh, -ihn, -ohng
> > > >
> > > > Up-down Tone(/Third Tone): :Last v=
owel letter of original + l
> > > > Exp: al, aol, -iln, -olng
> > > >
> > >=
 > Down Tone(/Fourth Tone): Double the Last vowel letter of original
> > > =
> Exp: aa, aoo, -iin, -oong
> > > >
> > > > v instead of original "=A8=B9" =
(U with two dots above like German)"
> > > >
> > > > Sentence Examples:
> >=
 > > Original: Wo shi Zhongguoren, wo lai zi Beijing.
> > > > With Tone Mar=
kers:Wol shii Zhongguohrehn, wol laih zii Beiljing.
> > > > English:I am Ch=
inese, I come from Beijing.
> > > >
> > > > Spe;u-ci neo sti-ma-boni Pinyin=
 fu auxi ma-poli ami;qi du stude e uti
> > > Cina-lingua!
> > > >
> > > > H=
ope this newly improved Pinyin will help more friends who are learning
> > =
> and using Chinese!
> > > >
> > > > Xiwaang zheegee xin-gailjiin de Pinyin=
 jiang bangzhuu geeng duo
> > > zheengzaii xuehxih heh shilyoong Haanyul de=
 pehngyoul.
> > > > (Xiwang zhege xin-gaijin de Pinyin jiang bangzhu geng d=
uo zhengzai xuexi
> > > he shiyong Hanyu de pengyou.)
> > > >
> > > > Salut=
a!
> > > > Li Zhenyu
> > > >
> > >
> > >  
> > >
> > 
> > 
> > 
> > -- 
> >=
 C. D .
> > 
> > 
> > [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]=

> >
>



