---
authorName: chris duncan
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: chris duncan &lt;krisdunncan@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGk1NHJzZys5Y3NrQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEFBTkxrVGltdmtDVU42Zmdqdm1XZWpnZVc3U1h3K2VSU0xTYlhhTFJOanNOWUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PEFBTkxrVGk9cGVHSm5SMFg4OVY3PW1xUmFnb2ZUN1dRYlZtczNVN3JKPW5HcUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4JPGk1NHJzZys5Y3NrQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1535
msgSnippet: zhenyu..there is so much to explain about  the perceptions that europeans
  have of the way they read  and pronounce the alphabetic writing of each of their
nextInTime: 1536
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1283050825'
prevInTime: 1534
prevInTopic: 1532
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: NRd21S2K4_0tgv2Abw9qi_IJlEnAt9BYtykaq0n87iJS4gV_SDfmNc6xIsO3QBuZiL3p4Wat4vEaBiVGpphMx8csfqyJDgrdgNRQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Newly Created Chinese Pinyin with Tone Markers'
topicId: 1526
userId: 459066750
---

zhenyu..there is so much to explain about  the perceptions that europeans
h=
ave of the way they read  and pronounce the alphabetic writing of each of
t=
heir individual languages, that i could go on forever trying to say it
all.=
everything you mention  is logical and reasonable.but people especially
whe=
n it comes to language ,are not logical and reasonable.you mention the
yuan=
 dynasty,well under the emperor kublai khan a buddhist lama( Phags Pa,
lead=
er of the sakya monastry ,shigatse,autonomous region of tibet)invented
an a=
lphabetic system which became the official writing system for all of the
la=
nguages of the yuan empire.you can see examples of it in the museum,or if
y=
ou like, on  the paper money of the present day republic of mongolia:it too=

was reasonable and logical. nobody liked it ,,when the ming dynasty came i=
n
,it went out.lesson? you can take a horse to the water, but you can't mak=
e
it drink.LOL
saluta

On 26 August 2010 05:51, Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@hotmai=
l.com> wrote:

>
>
> Dear Duncan,
> Sorry for my absence recently due to my=
 work and personal things getting
> busy!
>
> Thanks a lot for your reply o=
n my new Pinyin system. I knew earlier about
> what people, specially weste=
rners, would think about it! The system has been
> considered some common r=
ules of several main western languages like English,
> Germen, French, Span=
ish, etc..
>
> Eg:
> "-l" after vowels like in "al" for "a" in Down-up Tone=
, derives from the
> English spelling such as "calm, palm, talk, Lincoln,et=
c." in which "L"
> doesn't sound and can be used for the Down-up tone. In s=
pite of some
> westerners possibly will pronounce it as "l" in the way of G=
erman, Spanish,
> Italian, etc., which won't make a clear influence like En=
glish "l" as in
> "all", Chinese native speakers won't be confused by heari=
ng the sound "l"
> after vowels and Chinese learners also should know "l" t=
here, for tone, does
> not sound like "cALm, tALk, and LincOLn"
>
> "aa" (f=
or Down tone) is often used in sounding the same "a or its long
> sound A:"=
 in lots of western languages. Maybe you didn't note that in the
> current =
Pinyin, we take "Shaanxi Province"(west of Shanxi Province) to
> differ fro=
m "Shanxi", which is because the original Pinyin without tone
> marks in mo=
st ways, functions too bad and can't differ words in the same
> souds with =
defferent tones! So the Government takes the only exceptional
> form like "=
aa" to solve the CONFUSION. Tone marks are not easy to show in
> most ways =
in reality.
>
> "ah" (for Up tone) is often widely in western languages. Eg=
:
> English:Fahrenheit, German: Wahl mit Qual. "H" is a non sound letter in=

> almost all Romanic languages. "Ah! my god!" "Oh! dear!"
>
> "v" for "=A8=
=B9" is already used in Chinese character inputing on computer, so
> I use =
it along the mode happened. I personally like using "eu" for "=A8=B9", but
=
> I worry about most Chinese people being accustomed in using "v".
>
>
> Sa=
luta!
> Lil Zheenyul(Li Zhenyu)
>
> --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosa=
list%40yahoogroups.com>, chris
> duncan <krisdunncan@...> wrote:
> >
> > zh=
enyu...your new system for tones in pinyin by using letters of the
> > alph=
abet rather than tone marks above each word does not work for
> westerners
=
> > ....the reason ?...every time a westerner sees a letter of the alphabet=

> he
> > wants to give it the sound it has as either a consonant or vowel =
in that
> > alphabet eg: n.i.l.m.e.n. he wants to pronounce as n.i.l.m.e.n =
not
> > ni<men : wol as w.o.l not wo< (tone mark <) and the double vowel aa=
 in
> > haanyul he wants to sound as h.a.a.n not han (tone mark \) chinese =
people
> > do not have this problem because they are used to using a non ph=
onetic
> > symbolic character system, and they see each character as one co=
mplete
> sound
> > including the tone that goes with it ,so they fail to se=
e why westerners
> > cannot think along the same lines. the problem is psyc=
hological zhenyu
> not
> > phonetic. hope this comment is helpful. saluta c=
.d,
> >
> > On 17 August 2010 06:44, Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@...> wrote:
> >
>=
 > >
> > >
> > > Duncan heh DJ
> > > Nilmen haol! Qilng yoong wol famihng d=
e Biaodiaoo-Pinyin xiel Haanyul
> ba!
> > > Wol xialng kaankaan nilmen nehn=
gfoul zhalngwoo!
> > >
> > > Saluta!
> > > Lil Zheenyul(Li Zhenyu)
> > >
> =
> >
> > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40yahoogroups.com><gl=
osalist%
> 40yahoogroups.com>, "Zhenyu"
>
> > > <lizhenyu_god@> wrote:
> > =
> >
> > > > Hello, Dear friends,
> > > > In order to show tones of Chinese =
Pinyin with tone markers for those
> who
> > > can write Pinyin, I created =
3 tone markers added into the original
> forms of
> > > Pinyin which are as=
 follows:
> > > >
> > > > Plain Tone(/First Tone): Original
> > > > Exp: a,=
 ao, -in, -ong
> > > >
> > > > Up Tone(/Second Tone): Last vowel letter of =
original + h
> > > > Exp: ah, aoh, -ihn, -ohng
> > > >
> > > > Up-down Tone=
(/Third Tone): :Last vowel letter of original + l
> > > > Exp: al, aol, -il=
n, -olng
> > > >
> > > > Down Tone(/Fourth Tone): Double the Last vowel let=
ter of original
> > > > Exp: aa, aoo, -iin, -oong
> > > >
> > > > v instead=
 of original "=A8=B9" (U with two dots above like German)"
> > > >
> > > > =
Sentence Examples:
> > > > Original: Wo shi Zhongguoren, wo lai zi Beijing.=

> > > > With Tone Markers:Wol shii Zhongguohrehn, wol laih zii Beiljing.
>=
 > > > English:I am Chinese, I come from Beijing.
> > > >
> > > > Spe;u-ci =
neo sti-ma-boni Pinyin fu auxi ma-poli ami;qi du stude e uti
> > > Cina-lin=
gua!
> > > >
> > > > Hope this newly improved Pinyin will help more friends=
 who are
> learning
> > > and using Chinese!
> > > >
> > > > Xiwaang zheege=
e xin-gailjiin de Pinyin jiang bangzhuu geeng duo
> > > zheengzaii xuehxih =
heh shilyoong Haanyul de pehngyoul.
> > > > (Xiwang zhege xin-gaijin de Pin=
yin jiang bangzhu geng duo zhengzai
> xuexi
> > > he shiyong Hanyu de pengy=
ou.)
> > > >
> > > > Saluta!
> > > > Li Zhenyu
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > >
> =
>
> >
> >
> > --
> > C. D .
> >
> >
> > [Non-text portions of this message =
have been removed]
> >
>
>  
>



-- 
C. D .


[Non-text portions of this m=
essage have been removed]


