---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGliMDk0cCtybnBkQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1567
msgSnippet: Plu karo Glosa-ami, Most of Glosa s basic confusion come from over-using
  Tako-Glosa(Fast Glosa) forms like Mi volu.;Mi kanta. in place of U volu de mi, U
nextInTime: 1568
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1288939481'
prevInTime: 1566
prevInTopic: 0
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: wzJ71ndcJBBaxSHeqR_KxuWGWAIukwh6LvYMjhlJV6Td7i2yuR63mLsyHI5UkKo2xBoswaF2qYn4Uy6SHooIQYBuqtoGdviyGLM
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: '&quot;U(N)/PLU&quot; Resolving Basic Confusion'
topicId: 1567
userId: 420932182
---

Plu karo Glosa-ami,
Most of Glosa's basic confusion come from over-using "T=
ako-Glosa(Fast Glosa)" forms like "Mi volu.;Mi kanta." in place of "U volu =
de mi, U kanta de mi". If we use the more exact phase structure "u(n)/ plu.=
..de...", which will be much longer than Tako-Glosa. So, many people design=
 various new Glosas to improve the original. Some of those plans by adding =
affixes showing PARTS OF SPEECH have deviated the ISOLATING CHARACTERISC of=
 Glosa. If their designers think that's clear for grammar or sentence struc=
ture, why don't they directly use Esperanto or Mondlango? I know, they like=
 its Latin and Greek vocabulary which is the most common in all Euro-langua=
ge, also quite short in the word shape, and, especially attractingly, its c=
ompound words are quite easy and logical. Speaking of this, I'd like to giv=
e examples to show why Glosa attracts more people.

Ex.: 
Glosa------Englis=
h---Esperanto---Mondlango

avi---------bird-------birdo-------birdo
bio----=
-----life--------vivo--------vivo

akti-lexi---verb-------verbo-------verbo=

Meno-bi----February---Februaro----Februaro

"birdo"of Espreranto and Mondl=
ango derives clearly from English "bird", not common quite much!
Glosa "avi=
" defives from Latin, common to most of Euro-languages! Mondlango can't int=
roduce the Latin root "bio" for the same meaning, because "bi" became its "=
two",whose "Bia (adj. of two,)" will have the same form of "Bio(n. life)-->=
Bia(adj. of life)". "Bia(of two)" and "Bia(of life) are not allowed. Contra=
rily, Glosa can do this, because Glosa "bi(two)" needn't add some affixes l=
ike "-o, -a, -e, -u" and can indepently be. Thus, Glosa is free and flexibl=
e in word sourcing.
English "AVIary; AVIation,etc."are associated to the me=
aning "avi(bird)", which is about "bird's living place; flying". 

Glosa's =
"bio" derives from Greek, which is more common and shorter than Glosa "vive=
" and Esperanto's and Mondlango's "vivo" that derives from Latin.

Glosa's =
"akti-lexi" and "Meno-bi" are absolutely inteligent from "verb,verbo" and "=
February,Februaro" of the other three languages. No need to give more expla=
nations here.


Actually, I think we can use the way by showing "U(N)/PLU" =
in front of all noun phrases without adding any extra new words and forms o=
r changes to the original Glosa, in order to resolve some of basic confusio=
ns in Glosa.

Ex.:
Mi volu=3DI want
Mi volu es boni=3D I want to be good.
M=
i pa volu es boni=3D I wanted to be good.
Mi fu volu es boni=3D I will want=
 to be good.

u volu=3D a/the will (n.)
Mi u volu es boni=3D My will is goo=
d.
Mi u volu pa es boni=3D My will was good.
Mi u volu fu es boni=3D My wil=
l will be good.

Mi u nu-volu es boni=3D My present will is good.
Mi u pa-v=
olu es boni=3D My past will is good.
Mi u fu-volu fu es boni=3D My future-w=
ill will be good.

Mi plu volu es boni=3D My wills are good.
Mi tri volu es=
 boni=3D My three wills are good.
Mi panto volu es boni=3D All my wills are=
 good.
Mi u volu tri es boni=3D My will is good.
Mi u mega volu es boni=3D =
My big will is good.
Mi u mega volu tri es boni=3D My third big will is goo=
d.

Mi u Robota=3D My Robot
Na plu Robota=3D Our Robots
Mi, u Robota=3DI, R=
obot
Na, plu Robota=3DWe, Robots
Mi e na plu robota=3D I and our robots
Mi =
u e na plu robota=3D My and our robots
Plu robota de mi e na =3D (The) robo=
ts of mine and we
Plu robota de mi e de na =3D (The) robots of mine and our=
s 

Dona u robota a mi.=3D Give a/the robot to me. Better not: Dona a mi u =
robota.=3D Give (to) me a/the robot. For avoiding some possible confusion.
=
Dona plu robota a mi.=3D Give (the) robots to me. Better not: Dona a mi plu=
 robota.=3D Give (to) me (the) robots. For avoiding some possible confusion=
.

Fe bi-rota.=3D she bicycles.(she rides a bicycle.)
Fe bi-rota ad u cita.=
=3D she bicycles to a/the city.(she rides a bicycle.)
Fe u bi-rota=3D Her b=
icycle.
Fe plu bi-rota=3D Her bicycles.
Fe tri bi-rota=3D Her three bicycle=
s.

Aqa u flori=3D Water a/the flower
Plu karo ami=3D Dear friends.  "Karo =
plu ami" is seen in some places, which should be wrong! 

Saluta!
Li Zhenyu=



