---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGliMmdhNitvcWhhQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGljMmNyZittN3U2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1581
msgSnippet: Karo xShadowSoulx, Thank you for your reply on Lojban! I m glad to know
  you here! Many times, I had the same feeling like yours on Glosa. Lojban s phonology
  is
nextInTime: 1582
nextInTopic: 1582
numMessagesInTopic: 13
postDate: '1290057391'
prevInTime: 1580
prevInTopic: 1578
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: H-sRMoKtGmAhGPCjxq06l8fEnOqZFjWcVLYAblbDi0AZ8XOrEPsZBO7dLWPp7e0O60nz5Mdevu4AHL22SHC-_Px7zyS2RMAqqaQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Lojban'
topicId: 1575
userId: 420932182
---

Karo xShadowSoulx,
Thank you for your reply on Lojban! I'm glad to know you=
 here! Many times, I had the same feeling like yours on Glosa. Lojban's pho=
nology is quite odd for its sourcing is different, which is for pure neutra=
lization on its basic words, by combining parts of other two  original lang=
uage's words among the 6 main languages in the world. As for its grammar, i=
t is quite over-accurate so that humans aren't accustomed to it. I've got t=
he sense earlier that few men would feel it comfortable. But, I think, its =
existence is necessary. My learning Lojban doesn't mean I put Glosa in the =
second place in my heart. My love to Glosa is still! I don't know if you ca=
n read Glosa, so I use English to reply you. I hope you can.
Saluta!
Li Zhe=
nyu

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "xShadowSoulx" <shadowxsoul@...> wro=
te:
>
> i have personnaly studied lojban, and i find it to be a very bad ch=
oice for an auxlang, mostly because of its grammar. i also never like the p=
honology since it allows alot of bizarre consonant clusters.
> 
> it is ast=
oundingly alien and takes up way too much memory to learn. there is no lang=
uage on this planet that relies solely on word order like lojban does to di=
fferentiate gramatical case. the only cases where you see this, this is onl=
y used for the nominative and maybe the direct object (as in english).
> 
>=
 however, there is something similar you can do that can infact work, it wa=
s something i toyed with while working on my own auxlang. it is a concept c=
alled 'coverbs' that do exist in alot of languages. let me give an example:=

> 
> let's say we had two sentences:
> 
> i am going to my home
> and
> 
>=
 i am going from the store
> 
> in a language that used coverbs, there woul=
d be no prepostion here. instead each would use a seperate verb. so these s=
entences would look something like:
> 
> i go-to home
> i go-from store
> 
=
> here's the interesting part: if we wanted to say the sentence "I am going=
 to my home from the store", we simple combine the two sentences together l=
ike so:
> 
> i go-to home go-from store.
> 
> i believe chinese does this, =
so maybe the chinese guy where-ever he is could detail it more.
>



