---
authorName: chris duncan
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: chris duncan &lt;krisdunncan@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGljMmNyZittN3U2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEFBTkxrVGk9ZVZfeHJGZWJydVNyOTU0MEdydTVueGdfSytyam9xYXRTOV9zRkBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PGliMmdhNitvcWhhQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPgk8aWMyY3JmK203dTZAZUdyb3Vwcy5jb20+
layout: email
msgId: 1583
msgSnippet: Karo Zhenyu Good luck with your trip to the USA,Why don t you plan to
  visit Ken Caviness the famous conlanger who teaches in a university there ,you will
  find
nextInTime: 1584
nextInTopic: 1584
numMessagesInTopic: 13
postDate: '1290132914'
prevInTime: 1582
prevInTopic: 1582
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: HR54tzWyDVCLyeyBNirMNKMU5tpFuhldTzTFOc3T8NVby7S-3LOxdsqXaIUMR9IzSd2g3bN03X4ETJ0OgWHkdQ_xg1wGlPPtP6p0
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Lojban'
topicId: 1575
userId: 459066750
---

Karo Zhenyu
Good luck with your trip to the USA,Why don't you plan to visit=
 Ken Caviness
the famous conlanger who teaches in a university there ,you w=
ill find him on
his  website.Do you have acsess to U tube where you are?
sa=
luta
On 18 November 2010 05:16, Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@...> wrote:

>=

>
> Karo xShadowSoulx,
> Thank you for your reply on Lojban! I'm glad to k=
now you here! Many times,
> I had the same feeling like yours on Glosa. Loj=
ban's phonology is quite odd
> for its sourcing is different, which is for =
pure neutralization on its basic
> words, by combining parts of other two o=
riginal language's words among the 6
> main languages in the world. As for =
its grammar, it is quite over-accurate
> so that humans aren't accustomed t=
o it. I've got the sense earlier that few
> men would feel it comfortable. =
But, I think, its existence is necessary. My
> learning Lojban doesn't mean=
 I put Glosa in the second place in my heart. My
> love to Glosa is still! =
I don't know if you can read Glosa, so I use English
> to reply you. I hope=
 you can.
> Saluta!
> Li Zhenyu
>
>
> --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glo=
salist%40yahoogroups.com>,
> "xShadowSoulx" <shadowxsoul@...> wrote:
> >
> =
> i have personnaly studied lojban, and i find it to be a very bad choice
>=
 for an auxlang, mostly because of its grammar. i also never like the
> pho=
nology since it allows alot of bizarre consonant clusters.
> >
> > it is as=
toundingly alien and takes up way too much memory to learn. there
> is no l=
anguage on this planet that relies solely on word order like lojban
> does =
to differentiate gramatical case. the only cases where you see this,
> this=
 is only used for the nominative and maybe the direct object (as in
> engli=
sh).
> >
> > however, there is something similar you can do that can infact=
 work, it
> was something i toyed with while working on my own auxlang. it =
is a concept
> called 'coverbs' that do exist in alot of languages. let me =
give an example:
> >
> > let's say we had two sentences:
> >
> > i am going=
 to my home
> > and
> >
> > i am going from the store
> >
> > in a language=
 that used coverbs, there would be no prepostion here.
> instead each would=
 use a seperate verb. so these sentences would look
> something like:
> >
>=
 > i go-to home
> > i go-from store
> >
> > here's the interesting part: if=
 we wanted to say the sentence "I am going
> to my home from the store", we=
 simple combine the two sentences together
> like so:
> >
> > i go-to home =
go-from store.
> >
> > i believe chinese does this, so maybe the chinese gu=
y where-ever he is
> could detail it more.
> >
>
>  
>



-- 
C. D .


[Non=
-text portions of this message have been removed]


