---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PEFBTkxrVGk9ZVZfeHJGZWJydVNyOTU0MEdydTVueGdfSytyam9xYXRTOV9zRkBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGljNTFhaytubHZuQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1584
msgSnippet: Karo Sr. Duncan, Gratia de tu tali tako reakti e boni-spe a mi! Mi agenda
  a plu cita de USA ko mi plu kon-ergo-pe pa es ge-arange ex mi kompani ma pre-kron
  na
nextInTime: 1585
nextInTopic: 1586
numMessagesInTopic: 13
postDate: '1290143892'
prevInTime: 1583
prevInTopic: 1583
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: gY7SnvFKXKTrgm3gMvAharBZwegcfKPCxUR-DDK7YZIVpra5cPc6JhTtDZYfkz86hcg-cGqeNIvaFEabULgH83GNX-UT1eSyV4E
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Lojban'
topicId: 1575
userId: 420932182
---

Karo Sr. Duncan,
Gratia de tu tali tako reakti e boni-spe a mi! Mi agenda a=
 plu cita de USA ko mi plu kon-ergo-pe pa es ge-arange ex mi kompani ma pre=
-kron na pa veni ad USA. So, mi agenda ne inklude Ken Caviness; tu pa suges=
ti a mi, qi es u mali-fortuna a mi! Plu cita de USA mi pa dia es: Wakiki de=
 Hawaii, Los Angeles, Las Vigas, Orlando, e plu cita mi fu dia es: Washingt=
on D.C.(ex noktu de Di 19), Phelidelphia(semi di) e Neo York(a di 24). U di=
 24 es mi di versi a Beijing.

Kausa mi es fo anti-ergo de praxi mi audi-po=
te de English, mi plu-kron ne pote kapti poli lexi in longi e komplexi Engl=
anda-lingua dice. Mi pa gene nara ex oligo Amerika-pe; proxi poli Amerika-p=
e es fo anti-ergo de disci plu extra-langda-lingua, mu solo uti English. Ka=
-co, mi este fo no-justi de-co. Mi reali spe; Glosa fu gene uti panto-lo. F=
aktu, mi ski; si panto munda-pe disci e uti Glosa, plu Euro-lingua-pe pa te=
na poli facili kompara non-Euro-lingua-pe, ka plu basi lexi e gramatika str=
uktura de Glosa veni ex plu-la de Euro-lingua. Mu debi este fo gluko e faci=
li de disci Glosa! Ne es kausa; mu ne uti id. Sed mi ma pre-kron pa este; p=
roxi panto munda-pe ne es logika de mu volu de panto-ra, mu plu volu duce m=
u elekti. So, mu elekti English iso u munda lingua pro interkomunika, klu s=
i English es no-facili. 

Qo-mode tu dura puta de u-ci problema? Qe u munda=
 fu elekti un internatio-auxi-lingua. Mi pa audi; Esperanto pa proxi gene e=
lekti iso un EU-Komuna-Lingua tem 2004, sed id pa fali a-fini, posi poli Eu=
ro-pe este u lingua es fo facili, qe? 

Du spe tu reakti! 
Saluta!
Li Zheny=
u

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, chris duncan <krisdunncan@...> wrote:
=
>
> Karo Zhenyu
> Good luck with your trip to the USA,Why don't you plan to=
 visit Ken Caviness
> the famous conlanger who teaches in a university ther=
e ,you will find him on
> his  website.Do you have acsess to U tube where y=
ou are?
> saluta
> On 18 November 2010 05:16, Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@...> wro=
te:
> 
> >
> >
> > Karo xShadowSoulx,
> > Thank you for your reply on Lojba=
n! I'm glad to know you here! Many times,
> > I had the same feeling like y=
ours on Glosa. Lojban's phonology is quite odd
> > for its sourcing is diff=
erent, which is for pure neutralization on its basic
> > words, by combinin=
g parts of other two original language's words among the 6
> > main languag=
es in the world. As for its grammar, it is quite over-accurate
> > so that =
humans aren't accustomed to it. I've got the sense earlier that few
> > men=
 would feel it comfortable. But, I think, its existence is necessary. My
> =
> learning Lojban doesn't mean I put Glosa in the second place in my heart.=
 My
> > love to Glosa is still! I don't know if you can read Glosa, so I us=
e English
> > to reply you. I hope you can.
> > Saluta!
> > Li Zhenyu
> >
>=
 >
> > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40yahoogroups.com>,
> > =
"xShadowSoulx" <shadowxsoul@> wrote:
> > >
> > > i have personnaly studied =
lojban, and i find it to be a very bad choice
> > for an auxlang, mostly be=
cause of its grammar. i also never like the
> > phonology since it allows a=
lot of bizarre consonant clusters.
> > >
> > > it is astoundingly alien and=
 takes up way too much memory to learn. there
> > is no language on this pl=
anet that relies solely on word order like lojban
> > does to differentiate=
 gramatical case. the only cases where you see this,
> > this is only used =
for the nominative and maybe the direct object (as in
> > english).
> > >
>=
 > > however, there is something similar you can do that can infact work, i=
t
> > was something i toyed with while working on my own auxlang. it is a c=
oncept
> > called 'coverbs' that do exist in alot of languages. let me give=
 an example:
> > >
> > > let's say we had two sentences:
> > >
> > > i am g=
oing to my home
> > > and
> > >
> > > i am going from the store
> > >
> > >=
 in a language that used coverbs, there would be no prepostion here.
> > in=
stead each would use a seperate verb. so these sentences would look
> > som=
ething like:
> > >
> > > i go-to home
> > > i go-from store
> > >
> > > her=
e's the interesting part: if we wanted to say the sentence "I am going
> > =
to my home from the store", we simple combine the two sentences together
> =
> like so:
> > >
> > > i go-to home go-from store.
> > >
> > > i believe ch=
inese does this, so maybe the chinese guy where-ever he is
> > could detail=
 it more.
> > >
> >
> >  
> >
> 
> 
> 
> -- 
> C. D .
> 
> 
> [Non-text por=
tions of this message have been removed]
>



