---
authorName: chris duncan
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: chris duncan &lt;krisdunncan@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGljN2pqdCt2NWlvQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEFBTkxrVGluMjZGb1FfclZPRjJUd3hGbU1pWjdmNWFVcHFlcXROOFJVc0g2QUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PEFBTkxrVGk9ZVZfeHJGZWJydVNyOTU0MEdydTVueGdfSytyam9xYXRTOV9zRkBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4JPGljN2pqdCt2NWlvQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1591
msgSnippet: 'dear zhenyu li , most american towns have internet cafes where you can
  log on to the internet for a few dollars: there is bound  to be one near whatever
  hotel'
nextInTime: 1592
nextInTopic: 1592
numMessagesInTopic: 13
postDate: '1290306549'
prevInTime: 1590
prevInTopic: 1586
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: X902S4naGuybqczhWT-kzPY7y1Bx0iCyy4iRvuCc1k8PMtG14HqRX30jP3g0MufXuC6WD1YcTPSd5DfCG9AJdvoKoRu9P-Gjy2mv
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Lojban'
topicId: 1575
userId: 459066750
---

dear zhenyu li ,
most american towns have internet cafes where you can log =
on to the internet
for a few dollars: there is bound  to be one near whatev=
er hotel you are
staying in now, type in google on the web browser (firefox=
 is the best )
  it is the same search engine available in china but withou=
t the censorship
and then type in UTUBE it is a video web site, anybody in =
that cafe will
help you find it, all westerners know about UTUBE
when the U=
TUBE site comes up type in GLOSA you will then see a number of
video clipps=
 where a black american guy called arpee talks about and sings
in glosa.
wh=
y is this important? all conlangs up to now have been monopolised by
people=
 of european origins on this glosalist there is now an iraqui myalee
an ame=
rican gary a chinese yourself and if we can recruit arpee that will
make gl=
osa truly interacial.
best wishes chris

On 20 November 2010 04:42, Zhenyu =
<lizhenyu_god@...> wrote:

>
>
> Dear Duncan,
> I've not got a U tu=
be. What's that? Tell me please! Gratia!
> Saluta!
> Li Zhenyu
>
>
> --- In=
 glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40yahoogroups.com>, chris
> duncan <k=
risdunncan@...> wrote:
> >
> > Karo Zhenyu
> > Good luck with your trip to =
the USA,Why don't you plan to visit Ken
> Caviness
> > the famous conlanger=
 who teaches in a university there ,you will find him
> on
> > his website.=
Do you have acsess to U tube where you are?
> > saluta
> > On 18 November 2=
010 05:16, Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@...> wrote:
> >
> > >
> > >
> > > Karo xSha=
dowSoulx,
> > > Thank you for your reply on Lojban! I'm glad to know you he=
re! Many
> times,
> > > I had the same feeling like yours on Glosa. Lojban'=
s phonology is quite
> odd
> > > for its sourcing is different, which is fo=
r pure neutralization on its
> basic
> > > words, by combining parts of oth=
er two original language's words among
> the 6
> > > main languages in the =
world. As for its grammar, it is quite
> over-accurate
> > > so that humans=
 aren't accustomed to it. I've got the sense earlier that
> few
> > > men w=
ould feel it comfortable. But, I think, its existence is
> necessary. My
> =
> > learning Lojban doesn't mean I put Glosa in the second place in my
> he=
art. My
> > > love to Glosa is still! I don't know if you can read Glosa, s=
o I use
> English
> > > to reply you. I hope you can.
> > > Saluta!
> > > L=
i Zhenyu
> > >
> > >
> > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40ya=
hoogroups.com><glosalist%
> 40yahoogroups.com>,
>
> > > "xShadowSoulx" <sha=
dowxsoul@> wrote:
> > > >
> > > > i have personnaly studied lojban, and i f=
ind it to be a very bad
> choice
> > > for an auxlang, mostly because of it=
s grammar. i also never like the
> > > phonology since it allows alot of bi=
zarre consonant clusters.
> > > >
> > > > it is astoundingly alien and take=
s up way too much memory to learn.
> there
> > > is no language on this pla=
net that relies solely on word order like
> lojban
> > > does to differenti=
ate gramatical case. the only cases where you see
> this,
> > > this is onl=
y used for the nominative and maybe the direct object (as in
> > > english)=
.
> > > >
> > > > however, there is something similar you can do that can i=
nfact work,
> it
> > > was something i toyed with while working on my own a=
uxlang. it is a
> concept
> > > called 'coverbs' that do exist in alot of l=
anguages. let me give an
> example:
> > > >
> > > > let's say we had two se=
ntences:
> > > >
> > > > i am going to my home
> > > > and
> > > >
> > > > =
i am going from the store
> > > >
> > > > in a language that used coverbs, =
there would be no prepostion here.
> > > instead each would use a seperate =
verb. so these sentences would look
> > > something like:
> > > >
> > > > i=
 go-to home
> > > > i go-from store
> > > >
> > > > here's the interesting =
part: if we wanted to say the sentence "I am
> going
> > > to my home from =
the store", we simple combine the two sentences
> together
> > > like so:
>=
 > > >
> > > > i go-to home go-from store.
> > > >
> > > > i believe chines=
e does this, so maybe the chinese guy where-ever he
> is
> > > could detail=
 it more.
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > >
> >
> >
> >
> > --
> > C. D .
> >
> >
>=
 > [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
> >
>
>  
>



-- =

C. D .


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


