---
authorName: chris duncan
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: chris duncan &lt;krisdunncan@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGljYTBtYStoMGhnQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEFBTkxrVGlrZkd1MlMrVG91VDROdHgxM3VCMnI1QnI4Z19aRFc2RnFiM1h6UkBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PEFBTkxrVGluMjZGb1FfclZPRjJUd3hGbU1pWjdmNWFVcHFlcXROOFJVc0g2QUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4JPGljYTBtYStoMGhnQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1604
msgSnippet: yes zhenyou ! what do you think???   saluta ... -- C. D . [Non-text portions
  of this message have been removed]
nextInTime: 1605
nextInTopic: 1605
numMessagesInTopic: 13
postDate: '1290390205'
prevInTime: 1603
prevInTopic: 1592
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: u_HFMXeJ7in0CILwa0_wu7RTlPfBlG-9KFwdqQp-40dYdiklFPsX01tMs4JZHH0eFA_nNG9qr5WQBqQsgBVUQ33U1FO7REhqLD6_
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Lojban'
topicId: 1575
userId: 459066750
---

yes zhenyou ! what do you think???   saluta

On 21 November 2010 02:38, Zhe=
nyu <lizhenyu_god@...> wrote:

>
>
> Dear Duncan,
> Seems we are on=
 line in the same moment! I got that video
> http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=
=3DKtcGnV6JmUI&playnext=3D1&list=3DPL3A722570A6273B65&index=3D1
>
> Is it t=
hat?
> Gratia~!
>
> Li Zhenyu
>
> --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosali=
st%40yahoogroups.com>, chris
> duncan <krisdunncan@...> wrote:
> >
> > dear=
 zhenyu li ,
> > most american towns have internet cafes where you can log =
on to the
> internet
> > for a few dollars: there is bound to be one near w=
hatever hotel you are
> > staying in now, type in google on the web browser=
 (firefox is the best )
> > it is the same search engine available in china=
 but without the
> censorship
> > and then type in UTUBE it is a video web =
site, anybody in that cafe will
> > help you find it, all westerners know a=
bout UTUBE
> > when the UTUBE site comes up type in GLOSA you will then see=
 a number of
> > video clipps where a black american guy called arpee talks=
 about and
> sings
> > in glosa.
> > why is this important? all conlangs up=
 to now have been monopolised by
> > people of european origins on this glo=
salist there is now an iraqui
> myalee
> > an american gary a chinese yours=
elf and if we can recruit arpee that will
> > make glosa truly interacial.
=
> > best wishes chris
> >
> > On 20 November 2010 04:42, Zhenyu <lizhenyu_g=
od@...> wrote:
> >
> > >
> > >
> > > Dear Duncan,
> > > I've not got a U tu=
be. What's that? Tell me please! Gratia!
> > > Saluta!
> > > Li Zhenyu
> > =
>
> > >
> > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40yahoogroups.com=
><glosalist%
> 40yahoogroups.com>, chris
>
> > > duncan <krisdunncan@> wrot=
e:
> > > >
> > > > Karo Zhenyu
> > > > Good luck with your trip to the USA,=
Why don't you plan to visit Ken
> > > Caviness
> > > > the famous conlanger=
 who teaches in a university there ,you will find
> him
> > > on
> > > > hi=
s website.Do you have acsess to U tube where you are?
> > > > saluta
> > > =
> On 18 November 2010 05:16, Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@> wrote:
> > > >
> > > > =
>
> > > > >
> > > > > Karo xShadowSoulx,
> > > > > Thank you for your reply=
 on Lojban! I'm glad to know you here! Many
> > > times,
> > > > > I had th=
e same feeling like yours on Glosa. Lojban's phonology is
> quite
> > > odd=

> > > > > for its sourcing is different, which is for pure neutralization =
on
> its
> > > basic
> > > > > words, by combining parts of other two origi=
nal language's words
> among
> > > the 6
> > > > > main languages in the wo=
rld. As for its grammar, it is quite
> > > over-accurate
> > > > > so that =
humans aren't accustomed to it. I've got the sense earlier
> that
> > > few=

> > > > > men would feel it comfortable. But, I think, its existence is
> =
> > necessary. My
> > > > > learning Lojban doesn't mean I put Glosa in the=
 second place in my
> > > heart. My
> > > > > love to Glosa is still! I don=
't know if you can read Glosa, so I
> use
> > > English
> > > > > to reply =
you. I hope you can.
> > > > > Saluta!
> > > > > Li Zhenyu
> > > > >
> > > =
> >
> > > > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40yahoogroups.com=
><glosalist%
> 40yahoogroups.com><glosalist%
>
> > > 40yahoogroups.com>,
> =
> >
> > > > > "xShadowSoulx" <shadowxsoul@> wrote:
> > > > > >
> > > > > > =
i have personnaly studied lojban, and i find it to be a very bad
> > > choi=
ce
> > > > > for an auxlang, mostly because of its grammar. i also never li=
ke
> the
> > > > > phonology since it allows alot of bizarre consonant clus=
ters.
> > > > > >
> > > > > > it is astoundingly alien and takes up way too=
 much memory to
> learn.
> > > there
> > > > > is no language on this plane=
t that relies solely on word order like
> > > lojban
> > > > > does to diff=
erentiate gramatical case. the only cases where you see
> > > this,
> > > >=
 > this is only used for the nominative and maybe the direct object
> (as i=
n
> > > > > english).
> > > > > >
> > > > > > however, there is something s=
imilar you can do that can infact
> work,
> > > it
> > > > > was something =
i toyed with while working on my own auxlang. it is a
> > > concept
> > > >=
 > called 'coverbs' that do exist in alot of languages. let me give an
> > =
> example:
> > > > > >
> > > > > > let's say we had two sentences:
> > > > =
> >
> > > > > > i am going to my home
> > > > > > and
> > > > > >
> > > > >=
 > i am going from the store
> > > > > >
> > > > > > in a language that use=
d coverbs, there would be no prepostion
> here.
> > > > > instead each woul=
d use a seperate verb. so these sentences would
> look
> > > > > something =
like:
> > > > > >
> > > > > > i go-to home
> > > > > > i go-from store
> > =
> > > >
> > > > > > here's the interesting part: if we wanted to say the se=
ntence "I
> am
> > > going
> > > > > to my home from the store", we simple =
combine the two sentences
> > > together
> > > > > like so:
> > > > > >
> >=
 > > > > i go-to home go-from store.
> > > > > >
> > > > > > i believe chin=
ese does this, so maybe the chinese guy where-ever
> he
> > > is
> > > > > =
could detail it more.
> > > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > >
> >=
 > >
> > > >
> > > > --
> > > > C. D .
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > [Non-text po=
rtions of this message have been removed]
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > >
> >
> >=

> >
> > --
> > C. D .
> >
> >
> > [Non-text portions of this message have =
been removed]
> >
>
>  
>



-- 
C. D .


[Non-text portions of this messag=
e have been removed]


