---
authorName: Zhenyu
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Zhenyu&quot; &lt;lizhenyu_god@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PEFBTkxrVGlrZkd1MlMrVG91VDROdHgxM3VCMnI1QnI4Z19aRFc2RnFiM1h6UkBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGljY29pNithdnI3QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1605
msgSnippet: Thanks Duncan! I couldn t hear it in my hotel and have to do clearly when
  I m back to Beijing. I m now in Courtyard Hotel of New York, which is far from the
nextInTime: 1606
nextInTopic: 1619
numMessagesInTopic: 13
postDate: '1290397062'
prevInTime: 1604
prevInTopic: 1604
profile: lizhenyu_god
replyTo: LIST
senderId: JjJ4B-OuBnvLpw_9mg8q3HBckDT-C0rquwFd7fFpXHswFlYOrJkorde_KW59UYFrAtiUsxy0vn0FRJ8rcb1YzeefLOkLco0qYkk
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Lojban'
topicId: 1575
userId: 420932182
---

Thanks Duncan! 
I couldn't hear it in my hotel and have to do clearly when =
I'm back to Beijing. I'm now in Courtyard Hotel of New York, which is far f=
rom the center of NY. tomorrow we are to visit some New York's famous place=
s. The day after tomorrow we are to go back to Beijing by air, transit airp=
ort will be Narita Airport in the evening perhaps.
Saluta!
Li Zhenyu  

---=
 In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, chris duncan <krisdunncan@...> wrote:
>
> ye=
s zhenyou ! what do you think???   saluta
> 
> On 21 November 2010 02:38, Z=
henyu <lizhenyu_god@...> wrote:
> 
> >
> >
> > Dear Duncan,
> > Seems we ar=
e on line in the same moment! I got that video
> > http://www.youtube.com/w=
atch?v=3DKtcGnV6JmUI&playnext=3D1&list=3DPL3A722570A6273B65&index=3D1
> >
>=
 > Is it that?
> > Gratia~!
> >
> > Li Zhenyu
> >
> > --- In glosalist@yaho=
ogroups.com <glosalist%40yahoogroups.com>, chris
> > duncan <krisdunncan@> =
wrote:
> > >
> > > dear zhenyu li ,
> > > most american towns have internet=
 cafes where you can log on to the
> > internet
> > > for a few dollars: th=
ere is bound to be one near whatever hotel you are
> > > staying in now, ty=
pe in google on the web browser (firefox is the best )
> > > it is the same=
 search engine available in china but without the
> > censorship
> > > and =
then type in UTUBE it is a video web site, anybody in that cafe will
> > > =
help you find it, all westerners know about UTUBE
> > > when the UTUBE site=
 comes up type in GLOSA you will then see a number of
> > > video clipps wh=
ere a black american guy called arpee talks about and
> > sings
> > > in gl=
osa.
> > > why is this important? all conlangs up to now have been monopoli=
sed by
> > > people of european origins on this glosalist there is now an i=
raqui
> > myalee
> > > an american gary a chinese yourself and if we can re=
cruit arpee that will
> > > make glosa truly interacial.
> > > best wishes =
chris
> > >
> > > On 20 November 2010 04:42, Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@> wrote:
=
> > >
> > > >
> > > >
> > > > Dear Duncan,
> > > > I've not got a U tube. W=
hat's that? Tell me please! Gratia!
> > > > Saluta!
> > > > Li Zhenyu
> > >=
 >
> > > >
> > > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40yahoogroup=
s.com><glosalist%
> > 40yahoogroups.com>, chris
> >
> > > > duncan <krisdun=
ncan@> wrote:
> > > > >
> > > > > Karo Zhenyu
> > > > > Good luck with your=
 trip to the USA,Why don't you plan to visit Ken
> > > > Caviness
> > > > >=
 the famous conlanger who teaches in a university there ,you will find
> > =
him
> > > > on
> > > > > his website.Do you have acsess to U tube where you=
 are?
> > > > > saluta
> > > > > On 18 November 2010 05:16, Zhenyu <lizheny=
u_god@> wrote:
> > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > > > Karo xShadowSo=
ulx,
> > > > > > Thank you for your reply on Lojban! I'm glad to know you h=
ere! Many
> > > > times,
> > > > > > I had the same feeling like yours on G=
losa. Lojban's phonology is
> > quite
> > > > odd
> > > > > > for its sourc=
ing is different, which is for pure neutralization on
> > its
> > > > basic=

> > > > > > words, by combining parts of other two original language's wor=
ds
> > among
> > > > the 6
> > > > > > main languages in the world. As for =
its grammar, it is quite
> > > > over-accurate
> > > > > > so that humans a=
ren't accustomed to it. I've got the sense earlier
> > that
> > > > few
> >=
 > > > > men would feel it comfortable. But, I think, its existence is
> > =
> > necessary. My
> > > > > > learning Lojban doesn't mean I put Glosa in t=
he second place in my
> > > > heart. My
> > > > > > love to Glosa is still!=
 I don't know if you can read Glosa, so I
> > use
> > > > English
> > > > >=
 > to reply you. I hope you can.
> > > > > > Saluta!
> > > > > > Li Zhenyu
=
> > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosa=
list%40yahoogroups.com><glosalist%
> > 40yahoogroups.com><glosalist%
> >
> =
> > > 40yahoogroups.com>,
> > > >
> > > > > > "xShadowSoulx" <shadowxsoul@>=
 wrote:
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > > i have personnaly studied lojban, and i=
 find it to be a very bad
> > > > choice
> > > > > > for an auxlang, mostly=
 because of its grammar. i also never like
> > the
> > > > > > phonology si=
nce it allows alot of bizarre consonant clusters.
> > > > > > >
> > > > > >=
 > it is astoundingly alien and takes up way too much memory to
> > learn.
=
> > > > there
> > > > > > is no language on this planet that relies solely =
on word order like
> > > > lojban
> > > > > > does to differentiate gramati=
cal case. the only cases where you see
> > > > this,
> > > > > > this is on=
ly used for the nominative and maybe the direct object
> > (as in
> > > > >=
 > english).
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > > however, there is something simila=
r you can do that can infact
> > work,
> > > > it
> > > > > > was something=
 i toyed with while working on my own auxlang. it is a
> > > > concept
> > =
> > > > called 'coverbs' that do exist in alot of languages. let me give an=

> > > > example:
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > > let's say we had two sentence=
s:
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > > i am going to my home
> > > > > > > and
> > =
> > > > >
> > > > > > > i am going from the store
> > > > > > >
> > > > > >=
 > in a language that used coverbs, there would be no prepostion
> > here.
=
> > > > > > instead each would use a seperate verb. so these sentences woul=
d
> > look
> > > > > > something like:
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > > i go-to =
home
> > > > > > > i go-from store
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > > here's the i=
nteresting part: if we wanted to say the sentence "I
> > am
> > > > going
>=
 > > > > > to my home from the store", we simple combine the two sentences
=
> > > > together
> > > > > > like so:
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > > i go-to h=
ome go-from store.
> > > > > > >
> > > > > > > i believe chinese does this,=
 so maybe the chinese guy where-ever
> > he
> > > > is
> > > > > > could de=
tail it more.
> > > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > > >
> > > > >
>=
 > > > >
> > > > >
> > > > > --
> > > > > C. D .
> > > > >
> > > > >
> > > =
> > [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
> > > > >
> > > >=

> > > >
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > >
> > > --
> > > C. D .
> > >
> > >
> > > =
[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
> > >
> >
> >  
> >
>=
 
> 
> 
> -- 
> C. D .
> 
> 
> [Non-text portions of this message have been=
 removed]
>



