---
authorName: justi.miller@juno.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: justi.miller@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMDMwNzI4LjEyMTExMS4xNzU2LjAuanVzdGkubWlsbGVyQGp1bm8uY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 160
msgSnippet: 'Plu karo Glosa-lista-pe, You must remember an English teacher is reading
  these letters.  English used to be a verb-second language.  (Modern German still
  is.) '
nextInTime: 161
nextInTopic: 163
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1059415869'
prevInTime: 159
prevInTopic: 0
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: vVF4V9mEF_PfyG35gU9TiHIp1hk230lX_snskVIETmsEkXf-l1ZuvTNkIBZYz7kNYypDz8a0DRkTsH2L
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: English lesson
topicId: 160
userId: 123051087
---

Plu karo Glosa-lista-pe,

You must remember an English teacher is reading these letters.  English
used to be a verb-second language.  (Modern German still is.) 
Shakespeare has many examples of this:

NOTHING / CAN / WE / CALL / OUR OWN BUT DEATH.
Object / 1st element of the verb 2nd / Subject / Subsequent elements of
the verb / The rest of the sentence has normal sentence order for the
time.

This is the reason many English teachers insist on the "...said Betty"
construction; the quote is the first element, the verb "said" second, the
subject "Betty" last.  However, they can hardly insist on this anywhere
else, since modern English uses a subject-first construction.  In modern
English the sentence would be:

WE CAN CALL NOTHING BUT DEATH OUR OWN.

Although I am of little importance in such matters, I do not insist on
such archaisms (and am also in favor of English spelling reform as was
another famous North Dakotan, President Theodore Roosevelt).

Use whatever construction you prefer in Glosa.  I just hope this gives
you some insight on "Betty said..." and "... said Betty."

* * *

Vi debi sti u memo; u doci-pe de England lingua du lekto panto-ci grama. 
England lingua pa du es un akti-verba-bi lingua.  (Nu-tem Deutsch lingua
es a-nu.)  Shakespeare habe poli exempla de u-ci:

NOTHING / CAN / WE / CALL / OUR OWN BUT DEATH.
Buta-verba / Mero mo de akti-verba bi / Nima-verba / Plu seqe mero de
akti-verba / U resta de frase habe u norma taxo de u-la tem.

U-ci es u kausa; poli doci-pe de England lingua demanda u "...dice Betty"
stru: u cita es mero mo, un akti-verba "dice" bi e u nima-verba "Betty"
ultima.  Anti-co mu posi rari demanda u-ci in hetero loka, ka nu-tem
England lingua du uti u nima-verba-mo stru.  In nu-tem England lingua, u
frase es (homo Glosa):

NA POSI DONA U NOMINA "NA AUTO" A ZERO-RA SED MORTA.

Anti mi es de pusi importa de ta pragma, mi ne demanda ta paleo kredi (e
este favo de England-lingua verba-grafo re-forma plus homo es hetero
Nord-Dakota-pe; presidenti Theodore Roosevelt).

Vi pote uti ali stru; tu ma hedo, in Glosa.  Mi simpli este u spe; u-ci
dona a vi u logi de "Betty dice..." e "... dice Betty".

Saluta,
 _  _
  /.   Gary
#/\#
 ###

________________________________________________________________
The best thing to hit the internet in years - Juno SpeedBand!
Surf the web up to FIVE TIMES FASTER!
Only $14.95/ month - visit www.juno.com to sign up today!

