---
authorName: Fabio Lentulio Mota Filho
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Fabio Lentulio Mota Filho &lt;fabiomota@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGljb2pmMCsxbzFhQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEFBTkxrVGluU0s3a0dSUTdjQzgrSGpOeE1LWEVtK3JLcHdqMXlOLWFfMEVRYUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PEFBTkxrVGk9VTY4Qjl0eVNFd2ZjKzF2OEJ4YzRFUDBkWnZ2RUtoOE9rcUVtcUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4JPGljb2pmMCsxbzFhQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 1627
msgSnippet: Dear MyAllee, Thank you for your reply. Recently I started studying Glosa
  (www.glosa.org) and really liked the language. I ve studied a bit of Esperanto and
nextInTime: 1628
nextInTopic: 1628
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1290788405'
prevInTime: 1626
prevInTopic: 1626
profile: doutormg
replyTo: LIST
senderId: lVHkzEy7j2NEfgdSoBspZFxCkhZlg4yMMldH-z2n5hP_LsugNkfIZ5nahz6XV4nBrKUcbx-WqGoKJmvLfVXoIL4ky6uz4xaG6pwADMLCvc5FMuzf
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: GLISA(neo glosa de myaleee)'
topicId: 1607
userId: 172813218
---

Dear MyAllee,

Thank you for your reply. Recently I started studying Glosa =
(www.glosa.org)
 and really liked the language. I've studied a bit of Esper=
anto and the new
Fasile (www.fasile.org).
In GLOSA liked the way "isolated"=
 or the word without any change in gender,
number or superlatives. I did no=
t like the suffixe  -mo, -me and others that
overlap with other words as th=
e number 1 or the personal pronoun "me".
I am a doctor, a gynecologist and =
obstetrician, and work in Brazil. I am 46
years and 2 children (10 and 16 y=
ears).
Fabio Mota



2010/11/26 myaleee n <myaleee@...>

>
>
> Dear F=
abio Lentulio Mota
> thanks for your kind opinion
> I am iraqi doctor ,60 y=
ears old. I want to know all about you, please!!
> 1-what kind of problems =
-o, -e, -a ends give : It is excellent way to
> recognise kind of words (in=
 hearing and speaking) !
> 2- if you read and write in this language, you c=
an feel how easy and pretty
> it is.
> 3- different endings (eg english : p=
romise(noun and verb), adult,adulthood,
> rich,richness,infant, infancy,inv=
ite, invitation etc ). Instead of "-o", a
> beginner needs to memmorise a l=
ot of endings!
> 4-in french more than 400 forms for common verbs. In glisa=
, only FOUR:
> pa,fu,sio,nu before verbs! mi fu veni I shall come. Natural
=
> ending-interlingua is hundred times more difficult than my glisa.
> pleas=
e read,seeing food is unlike tasting!!
> thanks
> myaleee
>
>
> --- In glos=
alist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40yahoogroups.com>, Fabio
> Lentulio Mota =
Filho <fabiomota@...> wrote:
> >
> > I do not like the idea of changing the=
 final words to "o", "a" ... there
> are
> > already several other language=
s with this characteristic and this only
> > causes problems.
> >
> >
> >
>=
 > 2010/11/23 Zhenyu <lizhenyu_god@...>
>
> >
> > >
> > >
> > > Karo Myalee=
e,
> > > I ever had an idea like "-o"=3D n., "-a"=3Dadj., "-e"=3Dadv., "-i"=
=3Dv., but a
> > > little different from yours. I will show you later when =
I'm back to
> Beijing.
> > > In your word list, I dislike the word "kompute=
ro(computer)", which is a
> > > unwise word. "Puta-me(computer)"=3DPuta(com=
pute,think); "-me"=3Dmachine.
> How do
> > > you devide your word "komputer=
o", which is a dead word! Many same
> unwise
> > > words exist in your word=
list. Please re-consider about them!
> > > Saluta!
> > > Li Zhenyu
> > >
> =
> >
> > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com <glosalist%40yahoogroups.com><gl=
osalist%
> 40yahoogroups.com>, "myaleee
>
> > > n" <myaleee@> wrote:
> > > =
>
> > > > nosa amiko fe=3Dna ami-fe; para ta ta for adject=3Dneiborining)
>=
 > > > ami ta=3Dloving; ela=3Dher sibo fe=3D fe-sibi;
> > > > seqe te =3Dse=
qe-co; otra=3Dhetero(me prefer latin, more recognisable
> > > international=
ly); prekron te=3D in past , te=3Dfor adverb; sea=3Dhis own; zi
> sti;
> > =
> sibo fes=3Dsisters s=3Dplural ; aj=3Dimperative tense;aj veni=3Dcome
> > =
> > Blieve me glosa-pe , glisa is isolating, clear, not confusing, very
> >=
 > simplest of all!!!
> > > >
> > > > Jon: Papa, mi voli mariti Susan, nosa=
 amiko fe en para ta domo!
> > > > Patro: Nulitem! Ka mi prekron te habi am=
i ta relati ko ela matro! El
> es
> > > tua sibo fe!
> > > > Jon: Seqi te, =
mi sio mariti Mary, nosa otra para ta amiko fe!
> > > > Patro: Nulimode!! P=
lus te, mi prekron te habi ami ta relati ko ela
> matro!
> > > Mi peniti, e=
l anke es tua sibo fe!
> > > >
> > > > Jon pa kini a sea matro, e pa dici t=
rista te: Papa pa refusi mariti
> zi mi
> > > ko Mary alo Susan, ka ili amb=
i es mia sibo fes!
> > > > Matro: Aj es felica! Tu poti mariti alife qi tu =
desiri! Ka reala te,
> papa
> > > ne es tua patro!
> > > > -----
> > > > na=
=3D gene; ami na=3Dbeloved; prizi=3D like; za=3D full of , floro
> za=3Dcol=
orful
> > > > ajo=3Dthing; li=3D worthy lekti li=3D merits reading ; plu de=
i=3D plu de
> > > >
> > > > O mia bela ami na fe!
> > > > Qo doro mi sio do=
ni a tu
> > > > In tua nati-di ?
> > > > Anelo alo brakaleto de oro ?
> > >=
 > Mi ne prizi kadenos sirke tua manuos !!
> > > > Alo dulca mielo de flami=
 za koloro komo mia kardio !!
> > > > Sed la vera mielo es in tua labios ru=
ba !!
> > > > Alo vino? Sed in tota mundo, ne es vino
> > > > Komo uci, qi =
versi ex tua seduci za okos !
> > > > Mi ne habi ajo plu valui li dei la sp=
irito !
> > > > Aj preni! Mia spirito es infra tua komando !
> > > >
> > > =
> I hope you like my glisa and your suggestions, plu kara glosa pe
> > > > =
saluta
> > > > myaleee
> > > >
> > >
> > >
> > >
> >
> >
> > [Non-text port=
ions of this message have been removed]
> >
>
>  
>


[Non-text portions of=
 this message have been removed]


