---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDcwLjMwZTI2ZGI4LjJjNjNmNGRjQGFvbC5jb20+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwODEwMTI0MDUzLjAwNmEyMjY0QHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 175
msgSnippet: Plu Karo Amika, ... as ... **  I sympatise with Sid, and some time ago,
  for the sake of African Glosa-pe, who asked for some Guidance on sentence construction,
nextInTime: 176
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1060483253'
prevInTime: 174
prevInTopic: 172
profile: bliminus_107_ssaass
replyTo: LIST
senderId: U1bZmlXzd9u9mcBHkKZEvWUkcF0WNMCeI1i4Wx0aS5EkYhw4nAXUW46hfWDSU4WC20zY3Ez0qGpNHGVsOqAvJ-bTEz4nzv_QWEE9NTMDeKl2_Zrcmg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] roberti5 and captaon bligh'
topicId: 172
userId: 147970330
---

Plu Karo Amika,
At 02:30 PM 8/7/03 EDT, Sid Pidd wrote:
>Roberti was written a few years ago when I was decidedly vague about Glosa 
>syntax so there will be plenty of things to criticise - I plead not guilty
as 
>grammar was a nasty word in those days. 
**  I sympatise with Sid, and some time ago, for the sake of African
Glosa-pe, who asked for some Guidance on sentence construction, I wrote
Seminars #1 & #2.
    In frustration, and with the determination of the loner, who thinks
that if no-one else is going to do it, then, perhaps, I ought to, I
subsequently summarised the rules of Glosa's sentence construction .. as I
observed them .. and wrote a Draft Grammar for Glosa.
    These are all on the  http://www.zeta.org.au/~rgaskell  website.

>Glosa is often difficult to read because 
>we have not really grasped the grammar nettle. 
**  As with recent discussion of the Passive Voice, those interested in
deriving a "text-book" grammar for Glosa could Net together to produce a
result, which is agreeable to all.  However, there is a serious possibility
of such discussion bogging down in detail; possibly, to keep the two
strands, of practice and theory, separate, an alternative Yahoo List might
be needed.

>when I was looking at episode 2 of Gary's captain bligh, I accidentally 
>pfessed "delete" and lost the Glosa. Would Garry repeat it for me?
>sid
>
**  And another sidelight on this loss of information is the simple fact
that the bare-bones, Ron Clark plan for Glosa was as a language without
"redundancy."  Now, as most of us would agree, 'redundancy' is built into
most natural languages; and, if part of an utterance is lost, then, often,
the remainder of the message gives us the full story - because of inbuilt
redundancy.
   Not so in Glosa: obliterate one key word, and you are likely to have to
refer to the utterer to replace the lost information.  This could be seen
as a valid criticism of Glosa, or even as an area for future R&D.
   Example of one case of redundancy in English:-
  A cat.   VS    Many cats.  (Note: the "s" gives 'agreement' in number)

And in Glosa:-
  U feli.        Poli feli.   (No agreement)

Or: 
 Uno feli.       Plu poli feli.   UNO = one particular
                                  PLU - agreement with the plurality of POLI

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell

  To help with usage, I use:-
     _GLOSA 6000 - 6000 Greek and Latin Words and Roots_, 1992, Glosa
     Download (144pp) Glosa Internet Dictionary (GID): English - Glosa, 
         2000, Glosalist [now updated on Marcel's website]
     Greek dictionary
     Latin Dictionary 
     & common sense, inherent language ability, and the idea of Chomsky's
         "Universal Language" 


