---
authorName: Gary R Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary R Miller &lt;justi.miller@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMDMwODI2LjIxMDkxNS44NzIuMC5qdXN0aS5taWxsZXJAanVuby5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 184
msgSnippet: 'Karo Glosa-pe, There already is an international/intercultural rule for
  elision:  It is called left shift by linguists, and, although there are always '
nextInTime: 185
nextInTopic: 185
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1061950155'
prevInTime: 183
prevInTopic: 0
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: p_ZjtbOeA6cHqaIjK96wFNO965aEK1iUChghINB9QNl-96bu2vrdqEoWal-l4zVbrPPSTvEifd7JT1aCt2UzSUKIMrDRmtT30yPPkA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Elision and left shift
topicId: 184
userId: 123051087
---

Karo Glosa-pe,

There already is an international/intercultural rule for elision:  It is
called "left shift" by linguists, and, although there are always
exceptions in natural languages, it appears to be one the most universal
laws of language.

The law states that if repetitions occur in the underlying semantics of
the language, the one on the "left" (really the first one spoken) stays
and the others are removed.  For example:

  HE IS tall + HE IS strong = He is tall and strong.  NOT: Tall and he is
strong

English generally uses left shift.  But notice that English (and Glosa?)
grammar produces different results:

  He is a tall man + He is a strong man =[left shift]= He is a tall man
and strong.  (The New Testament Greek I have been studying uses this
order, consequently you find it sometimes in the Authorized or King James
Version of the Bible.)

Keeping the adjective before the noun produces rather:

  = He is a tall and strong man.

Perhaps an open mind to both formalized grammatical and underlying
semantic results would be best.

* * *

Pre es internatio/inter-kultura lega de apo-verba:  Id gene nomina "a
laevo" ex lingua-skience-pe, plus-co, anti es exklude-ra in plu natura
lingua, id feno es mo ex plu maxi universa lega de panto lingua.

U-ci lega dice; si itera-ra gene acide in skeleto semani de uno lingua,
un itera-ra "a laevo" (veri, u proto ge-dice) resta e hetero gene apo. 
Exempla:

  AN HABE alti + AN HABE forti = An habe alti e forti.  NE: Alti e an
habe forti.

England-lingua more uti a-laevo.  Anti-co sti vide; England-lingua (e
Glosa?) gramatika face difere seqe:

  An es un alti andro + An es u forti andro =[a-laevo]= An es un alti
andro e forti.  (Mi gene ski de Neo-Testi Helena-lingua; qi uti u-ci
verba taxo, seqe-co pe uno-kron detekti id in "Ofici" alo "Regi James
Forma" Kristo-Bibli.)

Tena u deskribe-verba pre nomina-verba face hetero:

  = An es un alti e forti andro.

Posi, u cepti menta a bi-ci more-gramatika seqe e in-cerebra seqe fu habe
maxi boni.

Saluta,
 _  _
  /.   Gary
#/\#
 ###

________________________________________________________________
The best thing to hit the internet in years - Juno SpeedBand!
Surf the web up to FIVE TIMES FASTER!
Only $14.95/ month - visit www.juno.com to sign up today!

