---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDMwODI2LjIxMDkxNS44NzIuMC5qdXN0aS5taWxsZXJAanVuby5jb20+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwODMxMTMwNDA1LjAwNzQxZGU0QHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 187
msgSnippet: 'Plu Karo Glosa-pe, Ko poli apologi, mi fu dona komenta uti England-lingua.
  ... **  Thanks Gary.  Didn t know of this name: Left Shift, but from years of '
nextInTime: 188
nextInTopic: 188
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1062299045'
prevInTime: 186
prevInTopic: 185
profile: bliminus_107_ssaass
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 3VAgs19O9FQzazzXnaT4jDDJCJUP2hrIjogiVsGJEHCFCj6eiho9pNfLkSYgXaaW8bkIdZAR7ehRDXhBlvHqbleU7lx-rU6_kuf63mkOeDjrl0pvOQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Elision and left shift'
topicId: 184
userId: 147970330
---

Plu Karo Glosa-pe,
  Ko poli apologi, mi fu dona komenta uti England-lingua.

At 09:09 PM 8/26/03 -0500, Gary Miller wrote:
>Karo Glosa-pe,
>
>There already is an international/intercultural rule for elision:  It is
>called "left shift" by linguists, and, although there are always
>exceptions in natural languages, it appears to be one the most universal
>laws of language.
>
**  Thanks Gary.  Didn't know of this name: "Left Shift," but from years of
reading, writing and speaking English, intuitively knew of the process.  I
would say it adds strength to Glosa's case for its users to know the
Linguistic terminology describing the language's mode of operation.

>The law states that if repetitions occur in the underlying semantics of
>the language, the one on the "left" (really the first one spoken) stays
>and the others are removed.  For example:
>
>  HE IS tall + HE IS strong = He is tall and strong.  NOT: Tall and he is
>strong
>
**  Some time back, this principle was spelled out in the case of tense.
    I, personally, was verbose in my use of PA when in 'past tense' mode,
and it was pointed out that the use of PA in front of every 'verb' in a
sentence made the sentence boring, and for some downright annoying and
uncomfortable.
    Paul Bartlett was at the spearpoint of this attack on my clearly
correct, but unelided sentences.
    So, with the idea of a "Left Shift," it was stated that, in Glosa, once
'pastness' had been established at the start of the sentence, it did not
have to be ^rammed down our throats^ with each successive 'verb' in that
same sentence - as long as the time-frame did not change.

IE    
 A.  [Boring] ~An pa gresi longi u strada, e pa visita u lokali boteka
                 pre an pa veni retro.~

 B.  [Elided and more natural] ~An pa gresi longi u strada, e visita u 
                 lokali boteka pre an veni retro.~

        =  "He walked along the street, and visited the local shop 
                 before he returned."     

 C.  [Even more elided, and more natural] 
            ~An pa gresi longi u strada, e visita u lokali boteka pre 
                 veni retro.~

    =  "He walked along the street, and visited/visits the local shop
            before returning."    
          
 D.  [ ... and omitting the  ~e~, = 'and', we have another level of 
            elision ... ]

    =  "He walked along the street, visiting the local shop before 
            returning." 

 E.  [But excessive elision can cause loss of essential information.]
        ~An gresi longi u strada, visita u lokali boteka pre 
                 veni retro.~

    =  "He walks along the street, visits the local shop before (he)
            returns." 
                 [In this sentence the sense of pastness is lost.]

  I would say that there are probably a number of rules of elision applying
to both English and Glosa, and this would mean that the "Left Shift" is
only _Elision: Rule #1_.  Perhaps we should be discovering .. through
experimenting with usage .. Rules #2 and #3, etc.
  
  Yes, it is important that good Glosa is not only clearly undersatndable -
through being syntactically correct - but it ought to be 'crisp,' as well.
  If all the mechanically correct words are in place, then Glosa is verbose
and stodgey; to achieve what I call "crispness," we get to the nub of the
matter quickly (and accurately), by using elision to eliminate the
unnecessary verbiage. 

>English generally uses left shift.  But notice that English (and Glosa?)
>grammar produces different results:
>
>  He is a tall man + He is a strong man =[left shift]= He is a tall man
>and strong.  (The New Testament Greek I have been studying uses this
>order, consequently you find it sometimes in the Authorized or King James
>Version of the Bible.)
>
>Keeping the adjective before the noun produces rather:
>
>  = He is a tall and strong man.
>
>Perhaps an open mind to both formalized grammatical and underlying
>semantic results would be best.
>
**  In these examples, "Left Shift" applied to the words, which were before
the 'verb', AN and PA, but a form of "Right Shift" applied to the Object,
which was after the 'verb,' ANDRA.

NOTE: I use the symbolic representation,  'verb'  to designate the
substantive Glosa word that is functioning as a VERB.  But please note that
 Glosa words can function, within reason, as VERBS, NOUNS or MODIFIERS;
thus, a Glosa word is not intrinsically any particular part of speech.  The
word's grammatical function is indicated by its position in the sentence.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell

  To help with usage, I use:-
     _GLOSA 6000 - 6000 Greek and Latin Words and Roots_, 1992, Glosa
     Download (144pp) Glosa Internet Dictionary (GID): English - Glosa, 
         2000, Glosalist [now updated on Marcel's website]
     Greek dictionary
     Latin Dictionary 
     & common sense, inherent language ability, and the idea of Chomsky's
         "Universal Language" 


