---
authorName: Dorothea
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Dorothea&quot; &lt;andoromeda83@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGlyOGppcSttZ21lQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGlyZWJlbisyYjhkQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 1904
msgSnippet: '... Dear Richard! The idea is certainly good, but it will not be that
  easy. Please read here about all the prerequisites: '
nextInTime: 1905
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1306177815'
prevInTime: 1903
prevInTopic: 1902
profile: andoromeda83
replyTo: LIST
senderId: dZjR05ul-FGcSAsL4Gg_b5IvHMx22yQB4JFzEHcQp5gM9HHqchErTnFNEnIywIehOTcapw4jtaJyDZ81witWQa2AeFykhrezsw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Wikipedia in Glosa?'
topicId: 1902
userId: 297638457
---



--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "richardapple2010" <richardapple2010@..=
.> wrote:
>
> I think somebody should create Wikipedia in Glosa. I hope som=
e of you know how to do that (Novial and Occidental has one, why not the am=
azing Glosa?)
>

Dear Richard!

The idea is certainly good, but it will not=
 be that easy.

Please read here about all the prerequisites:
http://meta.w=
ikimedia.org/wiki/Meta:Language_proposal_policy

To sum the preconditions p=
:
1. Wikipedia still not exists in that language OK!
2. ISO-3 Code. Difficu=
lt but possible.
3. The language must be sufficiently unique that it could =
not coexist on a more general wiki.  OK!
4. The proposal has a sufficient n=
umber of living native speakers to form a viable community and audience. (W=
ikisource wikis are allowed in languages with no native speakers, although =
these should be on a wiki for the modern form of the language if possible.)=

If the proposal is for an artificial language such as Esperanto, it must h=
ave a reasonable degree of recognition as determined by discussion (this re=
quirement is being discussed by the language committee). Difficult!

Genera=
lly Wikipedia is since a few years not so inclined towards constructed lang=
uages. Lingua Franca Nova was rejected as candidate some time ago.

Glosa h=
as some tradition, so there is a possibility. A kind of community and some =
literature (in print) are surely some assets in the process.

If a Wikipedi=
a is not appoved, you can at every time create a WikiA like Lingua Franca N=
ova.

Greetings
Doro


