---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMwOTI2MTUwMzMwLjAwNzRiODE0QHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 197
msgSnippet: Friends, This is not a happy message, nor is it in Glosa. Owing to financial
  ineptitude, I am closing half of my Net activity. I have given away the computer
  I
nextInTime: 198
nextInTopic: 199
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1064552610'
prevInTime: 196
prevInTopic: 0
profile: bliminus_107_ssaass
replyTo: LIST
senderId: gfRFKqeUxB6_22GC_17W_bUIy6-nOLD3atwDO0oQP5eb9y4o5uixw6TKPo-Z5Ikvz-6aWtzRYV-rJ8Lgzietp5E_VFzZ63PpM0mYrhgnUOPjTgxhLw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Gaskell Retired -Closing Website
topicId: 197
userId: 147970330
---

Friends, 
   This is not a happy message, nor is it in Glosa.

   Owing to financial ineptitude, I am closing half of my Net activity.

   I have given away the computer I used for <rgaskell@...>, and
that address will go off the air on 1st October.  

   So will the associated website:  http://www.zeta.org.au/~rgaskell

   Anyone wishing to copy pages from that site is very welcome to dos, and
you have my permission to publish them on your own site.  However, some of
the forwarding addresses need to be altered, of course: IE put in your own
e-address replacing mine.

   Sorry about the short notice: meant to send this message earlier; have
worries with having to sell the flat I am living in.  If all goes well, I
will be moving to Lithgow, which is atop the ascarpment behind Sydney,
called the Blue Mountains.  

   I will still operate from the <pacific> ISP, so will be seeing you.
It's just that the original Glosa website will soon be blanking out: Had I
forseen such serious consequences of my financial mismanagement, I would
have gone into 'miser' mode, and started hoarding my cash.

   Off-topic, I plan to follow the idea of setting up as a Net editor, as
my retirement enterprise.  No matter how big the Net, people will still
write clumsy and non-grammatical English.  If anyone on this List has any
ideas, experience or knowlege of this area, I would appreciate hearing from
from you.  I have done the one-day extension course from Sydney U.
"Introduction to Editing"; this must be followed by the full extension
course of one night a week for six weeks. 
   So, the bread and butter of editing will come first; then, with time
left over, I will start re-telling some more stories in Glosa, etc. 

   I am 67, and muddling through with arthritis under control, plus only
one stent in the heart; am working hard to avoid getting any more.

   Lithgow is three hours by train from Sydney; I will make a weekly
pilgrimage to town weekly to visit my brother; also, it has pure air and
water, but the winters are cold - though the people are very friendly.  It
was mainly for cultural reasons that I chose to buy my retirement house in
Lithgow. 

   Not farewell, but a surprise end to my Glosa website!

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell



