---
authorName: Gary Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary Miller &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBR2JLaUxwdVpRcmNEdVhFYkFPcXM5b29qR3kxSlA3U2tLeU1xY2FYNVFjVXFUT090UUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2047
msgSnippet: Xavier-- Although the H-sound was never a letter in the Greek alphabet,
  classical Greek did have it.- Anti un H-fono ne pa es u litera in Helena alfa-beta,
  un
nextInTime: 2048
nextInTopic: 2049
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1313596744'
prevInTime: 2046
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: rWEgLSNXFw30TSAYe_lH3h_SgC575Ifp1nqgGPtzXzBTxwJTTev1Toe0BT5WBX4OpIVp-RVoNP6gvcDdQvThGttYuZV53MZk
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: H-fono
topicId: 2047
userId: 486875979
---

Xavier--
Although the H-sound was never a letter in the Greek alphabet,
cla=
ssical Greek did have it.-> Anti un H-fono ne pa es u litera in
Helena alfa=
-beta, un arkeo Helena lingua sura habe id.
The ancient Romans did have the=
 letter H, and always transcribed Greek
words with it. =A0The Glosa word HI=
DRO from Greek is an example of
this.-> Plu arkeo Roma-pe pa habe u litera =
H, e panto-kron re-grafo
plu Helena verba kon id.
The Greeks did not have t=
he letter, but when a word started with a
vowel, they put one of two marks =
on top of it.-> Plu Helena-pe ne pa
habe u-ci litera; anti-co, kron u verba=
 habe proto vokali, mu grafo
mono ex bi sema supra id.
' (the closest ASCII=
 mark) indicated "smooth breathing," that is, no
H-sound.-> ' (u maxi proxi=
 sema ex ASCII) monstra "glabro spira," u-ci
es, zero H-fono.
` indicated "=
rough breathing," that is, the H-sound.-> ` monstra "ruga
spira," u-ci es, =
un H-fono.
The Greeks did use -N before the H-sound.-> Plu Helena-pe pa uti=
 -N ante H-fono.
A(N)- in Greek means "not, un-."-> A(N)- de Helena lingua =
habe u
semani "ne-, no-."
Therefore many languages have words like:-> Kausa=
-co poli lingua habe
plu homo verba:
=A0BIOLOGY/ABIOLOGY, HYDROUS/ANHYDROUS=
.
Glosa has inherited this pronunciation.-> Glosa pa heredi gene u-ci fono.=

(English used to have this too. =A0If you have an old King James Bible
at =
home, translated in the year 1611, you will see "an hundred, an
husband, th=
ine hand," etc.)-> (Plus England lingua pa habe u-ci. =A0Si
tu habe u paleo=
 Kristo-Bibli, King James translati de anua 1611, tu fu
vide in id "an hund=
red, an husband, thine hand," e tali plus.)
(Furthermore, I don't like it w=
hen someones says "an historic." =A0This
goes against the orthography [ORTO=
-GRAFO] of modern American English!)
Saluta,_ _/./\ =A0 Gary#

