---
authorName: Xavier Abadia
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Xavier Abadia&quot; &lt;xabadiar@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENBR2JLaUxwdVpRcmNEdVhFYkFPcXM5b29qR3kxSlA3U2tLeU1xY2FYNVFjVXFUT090UUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGoyaGUxZStzMjIxQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2049
msgSnippet: Ave, Gary. Gratia de u-ci info.
nextInTime: 2051
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1313618798'
prevInTime: 2048
prevInTopic: 2047
profile: xabadiar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: EpSbtAQxU1dAEdBhMesqdekRgqngoUIkSOaE3re09dUfh5o09VIQjOZQYKiH6uAIn_mbCJ1YQYxkMCvdmPvLK2YTlEtUim8bZVmS
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: H'
topicId: 2047
userId: 472762895
---

Ave, Gary. Gratia de u-ci info.

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Gary Mil=
ler <gmillernd@...> wrote:
>
> Xavier--
> Although the H-sound was never a =
letter in the Greek alphabet,
> classical Greek did have it.-> Anti un H-fo=
no ne pa es u litera in
> Helena alfa-beta, un arkeo Helena lingua sura hab=
e id.
> The ancient Romans did have the letter H, and always transcribed Gr=
eek
> words with it. =A0The Glosa word HIDRO from Greek is an example of
> =
this.-> Plu arkeo Roma-pe pa habe u litera H, e panto-kron re-grafo
> plu H=
elena verba kon id.
> The Greeks did not have the letter, but when a word s=
tarted with a
> vowel, they put one of two marks on top of it.-> Plu Helena=
-pe ne pa
> habe u-ci litera; anti-co, kron u verba habe proto vokali, mu g=
rafo
> mono ex bi sema supra id.
> ' (the closest ASCII mark) indicated "sm=
ooth breathing," that is, no
> H-sound.-> ' (u maxi proxi sema ex ASCII) mo=
nstra "glabro spira," u-ci
> es, zero H-fono.
> ` indicated "rough breathin=
g," that is, the H-sound.-> ` monstra "ruga
> spira," u-ci es, un H-fono.
>=
 The Greeks did use -N before the H-sound.-> Plu Helena-pe pa uti -N ante H=
-fono.
> A(N)- in Greek means "not, un-."-> A(N)- de Helena lingua habe u
>=
 semani "ne-, no-."
> Therefore many languages have words like:-> Kausa-co =
poli lingua habe
> plu homo verba:
> =A0BIOLOGY/ABIOLOGY, HYDROUS/ANHYDROUS=
.
> Glosa has inherited this pronunciation.-> Glosa pa heredi gene u-ci fon=
o.
> (English used to have this too. =A0If you have an old King James Bible=

> at home, translated in the year 1611, you will see "an hundred, an
> hus=
band, thine hand," etc.)-> (Plus England lingua pa habe u-ci. =A0Si
> tu ha=
be u paleo Kristo-Bibli, King James translati de anua 1611, tu fu
> vide in=
 id "an hundred, an husband, thine hand," e tali plus.)
> (Furthermore, I d=
on't like it when someones says "an historic." =A0This
> goes against the o=
rthography [ORTO-GRAFO] of modern American English!)
> Saluta,_ _/./\ =A0 G=
ary#
>



