---
authorName: Xavier Abadia
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Xavier Abadia&quot; &lt;xabadiar@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENPTDEwNS1XMTk5MkY0RDRDRkQ2MDMwODg3NDlEMzhCRjgwQHBoeC5nYmw+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGo2aWJrOSs0dXA2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2093
msgSnippet: Hi, Ian. I m not so sure that the latest variant of a Glosa word works
  better than the oldest variant. I ve seen that the oldest variants of Glosa may
  be often
nextInTime: 2094
nextInTopic: 2094
numMessagesInTopic: 14
postDate: '1317843401'
prevInTime: 2092
prevInTopic: 2091
profile: xabadiar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Ln54plvSLggTSr9r3sqDxfy6kul4XvQ494Cjg99kaVPrTqGmj3mNnnBwWB93nQoSwSAGnDnPxsf7NbZOUgm2exNfwlAsnGWCDOst
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Glosa 1000'
topicId: 76
userId: 472762895
---

Hi, Ian.
I'm not so sure that the latest variant of a Glosa word works bett=
er than the oldest variant. I've seen that the oldest variants of Glosa may=
 be often predicted according to its etymology, in the same way as the word=
s of Interglossa, because the morphologic arrangement of Interglossa was ma=
inly preserved: from Latin =96a =96ae, =96us =96i, =96um =96i, =96is =96is,=
 words were taken with endings =96a, =96i, =96a, =96i, respectively. Glosa =
was born as just an orthographical reform of Interglossa, as far as I know.=

So, I like the original words of Glosa not because they are the original a=
nd "sacrosanct" variants, but because they seem to me more predictable and =
simple than the latest variants. And this make them more friendly to me.

O=
nce I've said this, I now repeat that I would accept the fact that most aut=
hors of GID have given preference to the latest variants, they might have g=
ood reasons I ignore. I only reject the unfair method of marking an "X" to =
the oldest variants as if they were completely obsolete and useless. Perhap=
s a fairer method would be to let the oldest variants out of the "Centra Gl=
osa" list, while letting them stay at the "Mega Glosa" list with no kind of=
 negative mark.

Saluta, Xavi.

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Ian Niles=
 <ian_niles@...> wrote:
>
> 
> Hi Xavi,      From what I've seen, the words=
 marked with an "X" are all variants of words that are allowed (at least in=
 mega Glosa).  As I understand it, some variants of essentially the same wo=
rd were included in some Glosa lists, and other variants of the same word w=
ere included in other Glosa lists.  When the various lists were combined in=
to a single dictionary (viz. the GID), obviously one variant had to be sele=
cted as the official version of the word and the others had to be deprecate=
d.  I think you would agree that having more than one variant of the same w=
ord for many words in a language that is proposed as an international auxil=
iary language defeats the purpose of having an international auxiliary lang=
uage.        Another point that should be made, I think, is that there shou=
ldn't be anything sacrosanct about the first version of an artificial langu=
age.  In fact, I think the opposite is true.  Artificial languages get test=
ed in practice, just like software and any other engineering aritifact.  Th=
e parts that work well are retained.  The parts that don't work well or don=
't work at all should be rejected or modified.  As Jespersen pointed out, i=
n the end an international auxiliary language rests solely on science and r=
eason. -Ian
>  To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
> From: xabadiar@...
> Date: W=
ed, 5 Oct 2011 15:29:18 +0000
> Subject: [glosalist] Re: Glosa 1000
> 
> 
>=
 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  
> 
> 
> 
>   
> 
> 
>   =
  
>       
>       
>       Ave, karo Myalee,
> 
> 
> 
> It seems obvious =
to me that no-one should change the original Glosa words in favour of subst=
itutes supposedly better. I wonder why they had to substitute "ami" against=
 "amika", "apis" against "api", etc. But my dear friend, they actually CAN =
do it, they have ALREADY done it, by giving an "X" mark to many words that =
"should be avoided", even to essential words from any "Glosa-1000 list". (G=
ID, page 4). In my opinion, the GID might be re-organized: the "Glosa Centr=
a" list should be the only place where the X-marked words might be excluded=
. And the "Glosa Mega" list should be the integral list with both the origi=
nal words and the recent and preferred words. No need to mark words that "s=
hould be avoided". The words outside the "Glosa Centra" list would be avoid=
ed "de facto"; the words inside the "Glosa Centra" would be preferred "de f=
acto".
> 
> 
> 
> Finally, an "English-Glosa Centra" list is in my opinion =
far more necessary than an "English-Glosa Mega" list.
> 
> 
> 
> Saluta, Xa=
vi.
> 
> 
> 
> --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "myaleee n" <myaleee@> wro=
te:
> 
> > >
> 
> > > ave karo Abadia!
> 
> > > saluta
> 
> > > 
> 
> > > 1=
- glosa is very great and unique
> 
> > > 2- but wendy and Ron incompletely=
 made diction.: latin  and greek words for each word!!
> 
> > > 3- NO-ONE c=
an change  x-sign word or other defects!
> 
> > > 4- my opinion: use gid(bi=
g), nobody will blame you, but in beginning
> 
> > > of article tell strang=
e words : bato=3D deep  etc
> 
> > > 5- esperanto, ido, lfn , glosa all hav=
e defects unchangeable!!!We must tolerate them or leave the language :-(
> =

> > > 6- I   made excellent version of glosa> glisa, using only latin word=
s, removing defects and I gladly welcome suggestions.
> 
> > > 
> 
> > > sa=
luta 
> 
> > > 
> 
> > > --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Xavier Abadia" =
<xabadiar@> wrote:
> 
> > > >
> 
> > > > Ave, Gary Miller e pan-pe.
> 
> > =
> > Vi ski; u diktionaria "GID" habe u signi "X" pro plu verba qi "debi gen=
e evita" ("should be avoided", p. 4). Speci: amika, api, asini, et cetera.
=
> 
> > > > Mi amo Interglossa, so mi prefere plu Glosa verba qi es homo plu=
 Interglosa verba, so: amika, api, asini, vice: ami, apis, asinus.
> 
> > >=
 > Qo-ka plu-ci verba "debi gene evita"? GID no explika id...
> 
> > > > U-=
ci qestio es speciali dificile, ka plu verba freqe habe u signi "1" e u sig=
ni "X" iso-tem! (Plu verba ko signi "1" apare in uno ex oligo Glosa-1000-li=
sta).
> 
> > > > Qo-pe pa decide; plu-ci verba debi gene evita? Qo-ka? Qe R=
onald Clark e Wendy Ashby pa akorda?
> 
> > > > Mi es ge-konfusi de GID.
> =

> > > > 
> 
> > > > Saluta, Xavi.
> 
> > > > 
> 
> > > > --- In glosalist@=
yahoogroups.com, Gary Miller <gmillernd@> wrote:
> 
> > > > >
> 
> > > > > =
Xavi--
> 
> > > > > 
> 
> > > > > Plu verba ko mikro numera 1 in GID pa es =
origi "Glosa 1000."  Plu
> 
> > > > > Glosa krea-pe, cefa nu Wendy Ashby, d=
u face ma sistema u-ci verba-fa;
> 
> > > > > seqe-co nu es u neo nomina "C=
entra Glosa" e u sema ++.  U turba pa es;
> 
> > > > > Glosa 1000 pa faktu =
habe ma poli de 1000 verba, cefa kausa plu itera
> 
> > > > > de Latino e H=
elena verba in id; anti-co id veri nece u ma boni
> 
> > > > > sistema.  "C=
entra Glosa" nu habe proxi 1300 verba-- faktu, u ma mikro
> 
> > > > > qant=
ita de origi Glosa 1000.  (Un homi-face lingua Lojban plus habe
> 
> > > > =
> proxi 1300 verba.)
> 
> > > > > 
> 
> > > > > U bibli 18 GRADU AD EURO-GL=
OSA dice; "Na itera nece sti importa; Glosa
> 
> > > > > 1000 facili pote e=
rgo de ali speci de tema, klude plu forti tekno
> 
> > > > > tema, posi ko =
no-freqe uti de Mega Glosa."  Mi pa detekti sura veri
> 
> > > > > u-ci fra=
se, tem uti Centra Glosa.
> 
> > > > > 
> 
> > > > > Plus mi pa gene hedo d=
e tu pedi-bola kanta.  Anti-co in Nord Dakota na
> 
> > > > > universita sp=
orta grega es "plu Bisona."
> 
> > > > > 
> 
> > > > > Saluta,
> 
> > > > >=
 _ _
> 
> > > > > /.
> 
> > > > > /\   Gary
> 
> > > > > #
> 
> > > > >
> 
=
> > > >
> 
> > >
> 
> >
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
>     
>      
> 
>     
>     
> 
>=
 
> 
> 
> 
> 
>    		 	   		  
> 
> [Non-text portions of this message have=
 been removed]
>



