---
authorName: Xavier Abadia
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Xavier Abadia&quot; &lt;xabadiar@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGo2dWdzbCs0bDFjQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2104
msgSnippet: Salute, mi pa translati u Helvetia himno a Glosa, ex http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Swiss_Psalm
  ( English translation ). 1. Kron plu mana urani gene kriso-kroma,
nextInTime: 2105
nextInTopic: 2106
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1318242005'
prevInTime: 2103
prevInTopic: 0
profile: xabadiar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: p_LExhPv-XnJeT_bewK9qRrXzQNaiankS42Y9Lx1RJ5_sP9yTRr4E347Al-c-LqvE4BdT3pRAPIgkFM0DsjE7y3W9wDzQCaYWfv9
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: Helvetia himno
topicId: 2104
userId: 472762895
---

Salute, 
mi pa translati u Helvetia himno a Glosa, 
ex http://en.wikipedia.=
org/wiki/Swiss_Psalm ("English translation").

1. 
Kron plu mana urani gene=
 kriso-kroma,
E supra auto radia-ra,
Tu, O Kirio, surge in foto.
Kron plu A=
lpi radia splendi-mode,
Preka a Teo, cede ad Auto,
Ka tu sensi e logi,
Ka t=
u sensi e logi;
An eko in ci landa,
An eko in ci landa.

<  When the mornin=
g skies grow red
<  And o'er their radiance shed,
<  Thou, O Lord, appearet=
h in their light.
<  When the Alps glow bright with splendour,
<  Pray to G=
od, to Him surrender,
<  For you feel and understand,
<  For you feel and u=
nderstand,
<  That he dwelleth in this land.
<  That he dwelleth in this la=
nd.

2. 
Kron heli-kade, tu es proxi.
E ultra u ge-astro urani,
Tu, O amo p=
arenta, holo-tem proxi.
Kron na ki ad Urani,
Tu dona hedo e felici,
Ka na s=
ensi e logi,
Ka na sensi e logi;
Tu eko in ci landa,
Tu eko in ci landa.

<=
  In the sunset Thou art nigh
<  And beyond the starry sky,
<  Thou, O lovi=
ng Father, ever near
<  When to Heaven we are departing,
<  Joy and bliss T=
hou'lt be imparting,
<  For we feel and understand
<  For we feel and under=
stand
<  That Thou dwellest in this land.
<  That Thou dwellest in this lan=
d.

3.
Kron plu skoto nefo kripti plu buno,
E u polio nebu ple plu vali,
An=
kora Tu es ne ge-kripti ab tu plu fili.
Fora u skoto-ra; qi sti na kata e f=
obo.
Ko tu puri heli-radia dina.
Po-co na fu sensi e logi,
Po-co na fu sens=
i e logi;
Teo eko in ci landa,
Teo eko in ci landa.

<  When dark clouds en=
shroud the hills
<  And gray mist the valley fills,
<  Yet Thou art not hid=
den from Thy sons.
<  Pierce the gloom in which we cower
<  With Thy sunshi=
ne's cleansing power
<  Then we'll feel and understand
<  Then we'll feel a=
nd understand
<  That God dwelleth in this land.
<  That God dwelleth in th=
is land.

4. 
Tem tu veni a na topo agrio tempestu,
Tu auto dona, a na, u r=
esista e forti,
Tu, pan-pote, du krati, du salva!
Tem u fobo e plu bronto-t=
empestu noktu,
Lase na infanti-mode fide u Teo!
Ja, na sensi e logi,
Ja, na=
 sensi e logi;
Teo eko in ci landa,
Teo eko in ci landa.

<  Towards us in =
the wild storm coming,
<  You yourself give us resistance and stronghold,
<=
  You, almighty ruling, rescuing!
<  During horror and nights of thundersto=
rms
<  Let us childlike trust Him!
<  Yes, we feel and understand;
<  Yes, =
we feel and understand;
<  That God dwelleth in this land.
<  That God dwel=
leth in this land.



