---
authorName: Gary R Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary R Miller &lt;justi.miller@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMDMxMDA5LjE5MTgwOS4zMDAuMi5qdXN0aS5taWxsZXJAanVuby5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 212
msgSnippet: Karo Robin e plu hetero Glosa-pe, Yes, in a way retirement is going the
  way of all the earth, that is change and decay.  I am 46, and my government doesn
  t
nextInTime: 213
nextInTopic: 214
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1065745089'
prevInTime: 211
prevInTopic: 0
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 7pBAy6QTtet-jFh-npCSGnotXgARbG2g74QdMopnorpxrFaTcoVD-gEx9NinrFAC3v79MFgwtoslmvBffFAlEOiqcsgocGYjCVSJpg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Translati
topicId: 212
userId: 123051087
---

Karo Robin e plu hetero Glosa-pe,

Yes, in a way retirement is "going the way of all the earth," that is
change and decay.  I am 46, and my government doesn't want me to retire
until age 67-1/2.  Pestered by many allergies, a bad back, and bad knees
and catching the flu about 6 times a year, I don't know if I can make it.
 Still, I get a lot more done than many healthier people I know, simply
because I don't watch much TV.  I know you aren't going to sit back and
just watch Glosa but will continue to work for Glosa.

G:  Ja, per uno puta, sto-ergo es "ki akorda mode de panto munda", u-ci
habe u semani; muta e sapro.  Mi habe 46 anua, ko-co mi krati-fa ne volu;
mi sto ergo a-kron mi habe 67-1/2 anua.  Tem gene vexa per poli alergi, u
mali dorsa, mali genu e gene influenza sixa kron singu anua, mi ne ski;
qe mi fu dura ad u-la kron.  Anti-co mi fini ma ergo de poli ma sani
homi; de qi mi habe ski, simpli ka mi ne skope televisi.  Mi ski; tu ne
fu simpli sedi e skope Glosa sed fu du ergo pro Glosa.

As for the English copy of Sherlock Holmes, free ones, as well as free
copies of other English language Common Domain books, can be downloaded
from a place called Gutenburg Australia, www.promo.net.  There are some
classics of English literature here just waiting to be translated into
Glosa....

G:  De England-lingua kopi de Sherlock Holmes: plu gratis kopi plus plu
gratis kopi de plu hetero England-lingua "Komuni Dominio" bibli pote veni
a tu puta-me per u loka; ge-nima Gutenburg Australia, www.promo.net.  La
es plu klasika ergo de England-lingua literatura; qi atende translati a
Glosa...

I will at least give you the English for the sentences you inquired
about: "I never hope to see such a sight as that again, Mr. Holmes.  From
north, south, east, and west every man who had a shade of red in his hair
had tramped into the city to answer the advertisement.  Fleet Street was
choked with red-headed folk, and Pope's Court looked like a coster's
orange barrow."  (I actually had to look up the word "coster" to see what
it meant.)  Mr. Wilson was quite conversational but not too bright; I
hope the Glosa translation can convey that idea.

G:  Mi fu dona a tu plu England-lingua frase; de qi tu pa face qestio: "I
never hope to see such a sight as that again, Mr. Holmes.  From north,
south, east, and west every man who had a shade of red in his hair had
tramped into the city to answer the advertisement.  Fleet Street was
choked with red-headed folk, and Pope's Court looked like a coster's
orange barrow."  (Mi pa nece verifi u semani de verba _coster_ per
verba-bibli.)  Sr. Wilson pa es fo konversa sed ne fo logi-pote.  Mi spe;
u Glosa translati pote dona u-la idea.

As for making Glosa more understandable to peoples of other languages and
cultures--Glosa already is the best idea for that!  There are some
"Englishisms" a speaker of English needs to shed to learn Glosa; it is
not patterned on English so much as logic.  Most human beings consider
logic to be a "foreign language" and act mainly on habit or desire. 
Teaching the world Glosa will not be easy, but it will be _easier_ than
teaching the world English.

G:  De face Glosa ma logi a plu demo de hetero lingua e more--Glosa nu es
u maxi boni idea pro u-ci!  Es plu England-lingua mode; England-lingua-pe
nece lose te gene sko de Glosa.  U-ci ne habe basi epi England-lingua sed
epi logika.  Maxi qantita homi doxo; logika feno es u "xeno lingua",
ko-co mu akti akorda habitu alo volu.  Dona sko de Glosa a munda ne fu es
facili, anti-co u-ci fu es fo ma facili de dona sko de England-lingua.

My suggestion is to appeal more to children.  Children learn Glosa so
much faster than any other language, because there are no inflections
that need to be explained or taught by rote to them.  Children understand
Glosa well even though they don't know the difference between a noun and
a verb.  (Although even a child can understand: "If there is one thing,
put _u_ in front of the word, and if there is more than one thing put
_plu_ in front of the word."  I would concentrate more on this than on
the more abstract verb.)

G:  Mi sugesti es sti volu in plu infanti.  Plu infanti gene ski de Glosa
ta ma tako de hetero lingua, ka es zero gramatika-verba-fini; qi nece
gene explika a mu alo nece gene in mu memo per freqe dice.  Infanti logi
per Glosa fo boni, para-co mu ne habe u ski; difere inter nima-verba e
akti verba es qo.  (Anti-co klu infanti pote gene logi de u-ci: "Si es mo
ra, grafo _u_ ante verba, ko-co si es ma de mo ra, grafo _plu_ ante
verba."  Mi ma amo ergo de u-ci de de ma amorfo akti-verba.)

This again is nature's way.  We all learned to speak our native language
first and learned grammar later.

G:  Itera, u-ci es u mode de natura.  Panto na pa gene ski de dice auto
lingua ex proto, po-co na gene sko de gramatika.

But, armed with this knowledge, perhaps the best thing to promote Glosa
would be some old-fashioned incentives.  Esperanto has something called
_Pasporta Servo_:  Esperantists provide a place to stay for other
traveling Esperantists.  It has been an incentive for some young people
who want to the see the world cheap to learn Esperanto.  Esperantists
also have teachers who travel to third-world countries.  With
organization, perhaps we Glosists could do the same or offer free books
or postage to people from third-world countries.

G:  Anti-co, po gene panto-ci ski, u maxi boni mode posi es plu more-mode
sti-volu.  Esperanto habe u certa _Pasporta Servo_:  Plu Esperanto-pe
dona gratis tem-eko a plu hetero Esperanto-pe.  U-ci es u sti-volu de
gene sko de Glosa ad oligo juve-pe; qi volu vide u munda per pusi valuta.
 Plu Esperanto-pe plus sti; plu doci-pe ki a munda-tri natio.  Ko
sistema, Glosa-pe na posi akti homo ra alo dona plu gratis bibli alo
posta-preci a plu demo de munda-tri natio.

Saluta,
 _  _
  /.   Gary
#/\#
 ###

[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


