---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGJuMWVwbytycDJuQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDMuMC4xLjMyLjIwMDMxMDIxMTE0OTA3LjAwNzYyYjdjQHBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 217
msgSnippet: '... **  Tu uti de England-lingua ne eqa mali.  Mi logi holo tu grama.
  Ja na habe u Francais versio de plu prima kilo verbi, sed tu nece gene plu detaila
  ex plu'
nextInTime: 218
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1066700947'
prevInTime: 216
prevInTopic: 216
profile: bliminus_107_ssaass
replyTo: LIST
senderId: kqsLiXbxCxMfDreDot8EMekZP4BxLu_oLlfrWbXhu2t7IfeOlLvl79FW-EVb0s818ztqIzAbUsdcd_67wGtVh2RPycrWiR4OiAuHOLe30C5eG8WaVw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] hello'
topicId: 39
userId: 147970330
---

At 07:58 PM 10/20/03 -0000, Sebastien grafo:
>My name is sebastien, I am french and I just discovered glosa I know 
>esperanto yet and I would like to know if there french for help me on 
>learning glosa
**  Tu uti de England-lingua ne eqa mali.  Mi logi holo tu grama.
    Ja na habe u Francais versio de plu prima kilo verbi, sed tu nece gene
plu detaila ex plu hetero-pe.  Na plus habe u GID (Glosa Internet
Dictionary), e mi spe uno-pe pa traduce id in Francais-lingua.  U-ci qestio
de un existe de plu verbi-bibli pro plu varia natio lingua es u problema;
posi plura Francais-dice Glosa-pe fu direkti grafo a tu.

   [Your use of English is not bad.  I understand all of your letter.
    Yes we have a French version of the first thousand words, but you need
to get the details from others.  We also have a GID, and I hope somone has
translated it into French.  This question, of the existence of dictionaries
for the various national languages, is a problem; possibly, some
French-speaking Glosa users will write to you directly.]
 
>I would like to know too if there're a translation of the famous 
>shakespeare's verse "To be or not to be..." in glosa.
>
Posi na habe u traduce de id: id sio komence:-
   ~Eso alo ne eso: u-la es u qestio. ... ~

Alterno, uti ma simpli lingua, id pote es:-
   ~De es alo ne es, u-la es u qestio. ... ~ 

[Possibly we have a translation of it: it woould start:-
   "Being or not being, that is the question. ... "

 Alternatively, using more simple language, it can be:-
   "To be or not be, that is the question. ... "  

>Thank you
>P.S: Sorry for my very bad English
>
**  Tu habe boni England-lingua.
    Hetero-pe, ko ma tem, fu probabili kompleti u dice-ra in Glosa.

   [You have good English.
    Others with more time will probably complete the speech in Glosa.]

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell


