---
authorName: xon tiffany
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: xon tiffany &lt;poseidon7neptune@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBTjBrVmJZS3VRcytlc3BodFc2TkdOeWtaZlQxcWtLbWRpMmFQPUxpYTBjelliLWgrUUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2211
msgSnippet: "ENGLISH AS SHE IS SPOKE ......\u200F You think English is easy? Look\
  \ how these words are used: 1) The bandage was wound around the wound. 2) The farm\
  \ was used to"
nextInTime: 2212
nextInTopic: 2240
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1329338134'
prevInTime: 2210
prevInTopic: 0
profile: xontifani
replyTo: LIST
senderId: pRSFyFgcX4DO8mcQ77PaTBhbEbi7__sqDlN8jS4pytYxNlGnr_mGS3CK1WQsEe7njXtwij9P0F41Cbxybc7Sp5AOVILdyOr7qp0IKvVgZg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Glosa good--English crazy
topicId: 2211
userId: 498966991
---

ENGLISH AS SHE IS SPOKE ......=E2=80=8F

You think English is easy? Look ho=
w these words are used:


1) The bandage was wound around the wound.

2) Th=
e farm was used to produce produce.

3) The dump was so full that it had to=
 refuse more refuse.

4) We must polish the Polish furniture..

5) He could=
 lead if he would get the lead out.

6) The soldier decided to desert his d=
essert in the desert..

7) Since there is no time like the present, he thou=
ght it was time to
present the present.

8) A bass was painted on the head =
of the bass drum.

9) When shot at, the dove dove into the bushes.

10) I d=
id not object to the object.

11) The insurance was invalid for the invalid=
.

12) There was a row among the oarsmen about how to row.

13) They were t=
oo close to the door to close it.

14) The buck does funny things when the =
does are present.

15) A seamstress and a sewer fell down into a sewer line=
.

16) To help with planting, the farmer taught his sow to sow.

17) The wi=
nd was too strong to wind the sail.

18) Upon seeing the tear in the painti=
ng I shed a tear..

19) I had to subject the subject to a series of tests.
=

20) How can I intimate this to my most intimate friend?


Let's face it - =
English is a crazy language. There is no egg in
eggplant, nor ham in hambur=
ger; neither apple nor pine in pineapple.
English muffins weren't invented =
in England or French fries in France
. Sweetmeats are candies while sweetbr=
eads, which aren't sweet, are
meat. We take English for granted. But if we =
explore its paradoxes, we
find that quicksand can work slowly, boxing rings=
 are square and a
guinea pig is neither from Guinea nor is it a pig..

And =
why is it that writers write but fingers don't fing, grocers don't
groce an=
d hammers don't ham? If the plural of tooth is teeth, why
isn't the plural =
of booth, beeth? One goose, 2 geese. So one moose, 2
meese? One index, 2 in=
dices? Doesn't it seem crazy that you can make
amends but not one amend? If=
 you have a bunch of odds and ends and get
rid of all but one of them, what=
 do you call it?

If teachers taught, why didn't preachers praught? If a ve=
getarian eats
vegetables, what does a humanitarian eat? Sometimes I think a=
ll the
English speakers should be committed to an asylum for the verbally
i=
nsane. In what language do people recite at a play and play at a
recital? S=
hip by truck and send cargo by ship? Have noses that run and
feet that smel=
l?

How can a slim chance and a fat chance be the same, while a wise man
an=
d a wise guy are opposites? You have to marvel at the unique lunacy
of a la=
nguage in which your house can burn up as it burns down, in
which you fill =
in a form by filling it out and in which, an alarm goes
off by going on.

E=
nglish was invented by people, not computers, and it reflects the
creativit=
y of the human race, which, of course, is not a race at all.
That is why, w=
hen the stars are out, they are visible, but when the
lights are out, they =
are invisible.

PS. - Why doesn't 'Buick' rhyme with 'quick' ?


You lovers=
 of the English language might enjoy this ..

There is a two-letter word th=
at perhaps has more meanings than any
other two-letter word, and that is 'U=
P.'

It's easy to understand UP, meaning toward the sky or at the top of
th=
e list, but when we awaken in the morning, why do we wake UP ?
At a meeting=
, why does a topic come UP?
Why do we speak UP and why are the officers UP =
for election and why is
it UP to the secretary to write UP a report?
We cal=
l UP our friends.
And we use it to brighten UP a room, polish UP the silver=
; we warm UP
the leftovers and clean UP the kitchen.
We lock UP the house a=
nd some guys fix UP the old car.
At other times the little word has real sp=
ecial meaning.
People stir UP trouble, line UP for tickets, work UP an appe=
tite, and
think UP excuses.
To be dressed is one thing, but to be dressed U=
P is special.
A drain must be opened UP because it is stopped UP.
We open U=
P a store in the morning but we close it UP at night.

We seem to be pretty=
 mixed UP about UP!
To be knowledgeable about the proper uses of UP, look t=
he word UP in
the dictionary.
In a desk-sized dictionary, it takes UP almos=
t 1/4th of the page and
can add UP to about thirty definitions.
If you are =
UP to it, you might try building UP a list of the many ways
UP is used.
It =
will take UP a lot of your time, but if you don't give UP, you may
wind UP =
with a hundred or more
When it threatens to rain, we say it is clouding UP.=

When the sun comes out we say it is clearing UP.
When it rains, it wets th=
e earth and often messes things UP.
When it doesn't rain for a while, thing=
s dry UP.

One could go on and on, but I'll wrap it UP,
for now my time is =
UP,
so.......it is time to shut UP!
Now it's UP to you what you do with thi=
s info.

