---
authorName: Gary Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary Miller &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBR2JLaUxvTlA4cnZxajd4aVdGdkdKNnpKeUxGekxIVWdXUStwQz0yU049dXlaM0c3UUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2223
msgSnippet: Nick- Plu mikro-ra HABE kali. Yes, this is the way Hogben originally wanted
  it to be! - Ja, u-ci es u mode; Hogben origi volu! * * * Stephan- Nice to hear
nextInTime: 2226
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1330303408'
prevInTime: 2222
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Md3xDRXz4occ5u9xejLX_xfWCrkZ42lF2mF1Vk9zJT3HXvRWx9Z0AsgjAfVf6kpRLXgUiSmTuECHB3Os5uRZYQauPl2qULrS
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Nick, Stefan
topicId: 2223
userId: 486875979
---

Nick-

"Plu mikro-ra HABE kali."

Yes, this is the way Hogben originally wa=
nted it to be!
-> Ja, u-ci es u mode; Hogben origi volu!

* * *

Stephan-

=
Nice to hear from you! It's good to get input from an experienced conlanger=
.

When Hogben first invented Interglossa, he preferred the Greek word
root=
s, and had most of them end in -O, because scientific/technical
words use t=
he -O a lot in connectivity. For example:

lito > lithOgraph
astro > astrOn=
aut
termo > thermOmeter
tipo > typOgraphy

Some of these words are still fo=
und in the Glosa Internet Dictionary (GID).

Yes, some people have proposed=
 word derivation schemes, including
Marcel Springer, who mainly compiled th=
e GID. But since Ron Clark and
Wendy Ashby have been revising Glosa, the wo=
rds tend to come from the
English spelling, especially (my personal observa=
tion) from
adjectives. For example:

noktu > NOCTUrnal
lakti > LACTIc
kalor=
i > CALORIc
odoro > ODOROus
kredi > CREDIble
glori > GLORIous
kali > CALLIg=
raphic
frigi > FRIGId
splendi > SPLENDId
spaci > SPACIous
palati > PALATIal=


I emphasize, this is my personal observation, and I do not know of any
sp=
ecific derivation scheme.

Regarding KASO, STATO, MANU, FAKTU: This has alw=
ays been a problem.
When the ancient Romans used STATUS, FACTUS as perfect =
passive
participles, they took grammatical endings the same as adjectives.
=
When they were used as nouns, they belonged to the 4th (-U)
declension. Pea=
no's original plan for Latino Sine Flexione was to have
all these words end=
 in -O. The -U endings came in a later revision.

I know this doesn't answe=
r all your questions, but I think it's the
best anyone can do for now. Wend=
y Ashby tells me she is still working
on Glosa's vocabulary.

Saluta,
_ _
/=
.
/\ =A0 Gary
#

