---
authorName: Stephan Schneider
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Stephan Schneider&quot; &lt;stefichjo@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGppZm1ycCszaWdmQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGppaXM1dStnOXNrQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2227
msgSnippet: Hi Xavier, Gary and Marcel, I was afraid you could say something like
  that. But I thank you very much for your explications and examples. An etymological
nextInTime: 2228
nextInTopic: 2228
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1330443262'
prevInTime: 2226
prevInTopic: 2226
profile: stefichjo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: sPJtKVetU4MmNONQ6No6jlJkCOw3n3qRmPBdgOafoi4H-RY-ufw3wzeRzE6mpsxZDL2CzL6TU2WbBb_uckn06YqFhsEIAY6B-8loPIzjng
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Word Derivation'
topicId: 2220
userId: 223284213
---

Hi Xavier, Gary and Marcel,

I was afraid you could say something like that=
. But I thank you very much for your explications and examples. An etymolog=
ical indication might be useful, but it only postpones the problem of a wor=
d derivation scheme. For instance, if "noctu" comes from "nocturnal", "di" =
should be "diu" because of "diurnal".

It is a difficult task to chose the =
final vowel sensibly. I came up with this approach (for latin words): (Plea=
se excuse that I write "c" instead of "k".)

Let's take the ablative form (=
with -e instead of -i): mare (*mari), manu, sole (*sola), porta, portu. Let=
's elide unnecessary "-in-" and "-it-": lume (*lumi), home (*homi), nome, l=
ime (*limita).

Let's take the past participle stem with -i as a regular fo=
rm for verbs: stati, facti, lecti.

Let's form another word based on the pa=
st participle only if it has a different meaning and is therefore not easil=
y expressible by ordinary grammatical constuctions: nati (birth), natio (na=
tion); visi (to look at), visio (to watch), visione (to see in a dream or i=
n trance); lecti (to read), lectio (lecture), lectione (lesson).

Let's use=
 the original verb form only if it has a different meaning: vide (to see), =
visi (to look at); face (to do), facti (to make). ("lege" meaning "to read"=
 wouldn't have a different meaning than "lecti". Therefore "lege" should me=
an something different, either "to collect" (which could be expressed by "c=
olecti") or it should mean "law", from Latin "lege" (<< lex).)

Let's use t=
he ablative ending -u of the -us -us declension (the new word should have a=
dditional connotation to the idea of "a single/entire execution of an actio=
n"): acti (to act, acting), actu (an act (theatre)). Also with -ura: statu =
(state), statura (stature).

Let's use the ending -o instead of -ore: amore=
 >> amo, odore >> odo, calore >> calo. Same with -ore in combination with p=
ast participle stems: cursi (to run), cursu (course), curso (cursor); ("act=
o" for "actor" would be correct but wouldn't add additional meaning, so "ac=
ti-pe" should be preferred).

The original nominative ending could be used,=
 too: "data", "datum", "status", "casus" (case in grammar vs. "casu" - "cas=
e") in case we ran out of endings.

The ending of the base word could be el=
ided, for instance in poetry: act(i), sol(e), man(u), vit(a), dom(o).

I'm =
not so sure about greek words yet. We could try and distinguish "fotograf" =
(photograph), "fotografo" (photographer), "fotografia" (photography), "foto=
grafi[c]" (photographic). On the other hand these words are so close in mea=
ning that they should be simply derived in Glosa, like "fotograf(o)-pe". Th=
e ending -o may not mean anything at all and should be used only in compoun=
ds, like "fot-o-graf(o)" with "fot" (light) as the base word.

Regards,
Ste=
phan


--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Xavier Abadia" <xabadiar@...> wro=
te:
>
> Hi, Stephan, and Marcel.
> 
> Glosa partially inherits the morpholo=
gy plan of Interglossa, which usually gives a final i to the nouns from the=
 Latin 2d and 3d declensions: agri, avi, bovi, cani, carni, clavi, feli, fi=
li, flori, horti, igni, infanti, insecti, etc. And it gives a final a to no=
uns from the 1t and 2d neuter: aqua, camera, carta, casea, cauda, nasa, etc=
.
> 
> Glosa seems to develop its own morphology depending on derived words=
, which were usually adopted by English, such as nocturn(al) from Latin noc=
turnus. So Glosa has noktu while Interglossa has nocti. Gary has given a go=
od set of examples in the previous message.
> 
> I think this morphology pl=
an makes the vocabulary more difficult to memorize. So the dictionary of Gl=
osa should provide the etymologic key of every word (noktu < L. nocturnus, =
A. nocturnal), so we can memorize the lexicon with confidence. Now we are u=
sually forced to guess why the morphology of this or that word is as it is.=

> 
> Greetings.
> 
> 
> --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Marcel Springer=
" <marcel@> wrote:
> >
> > 
> > Ave Stephan, bene-veni e welcome und willko=
mmen a Glosalist. 
> > 
> > 
> >  > (I'm referring to the GID: http://www.g=
losa.org/gid/glen.htm and
> >  >  the derivation rules described in Wikiped=
ia:
> >  >  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glosa#Word_Derivation_.5B6.5D .The=
y 
> >  >  don't seem to fit. Are there any derivation rules at all?) 
> > =

> > Is the author of the wikipedia-article here in glosalist, or did
> > a=
nyone of our group contributed to it?  If so, I would like to thank
> > you=
 - for the help, that it gives to our language and, personally,
> > thanks =
for its link to the glosa.org homepage. 
> > 
> > 
> >  > We got "noktu", "=
lakti" and "fonta", but the latin ablative forms
> >  > are "nocte", "lacte=
" and "fonte". What's the reason for -u, -i and
> >  > -a in Glosa? 
> >  >=
 We got "honora", "kalori", "odoro", "amo", but the latin ablative
> >  > f=
orms are "honore", "calore", "odore", "amore". What's the reason
> >  > for=
 "-ora", "-ori", "-oro", "-o" in Glosa? 
> >  > ... 
> > 
> > Over the last=
 years, we had a lot of discussion here in glosalist
> > about this final v=
owel problem.  I like your suggestions very well and
> > I would appreciate=
 a word derivation like this.  But please note, that
> > wikipedia is misle=
ading here. 
> > 
> > Glosa words are NOT derived from Greek and Latin word=
s nor by means of 
> > methods based on classical philology. 
> > Glosa wor=
ds are derived FROM ENGLISH WORDS with Greek and Latin
> > origin! 
> > 
> =
> And so we get words like "noktu" (nocturnal), "lakti" (lactic),
> > "font=
a" (fountAin) and so on. 
> > 
> > Saluta - Marcel


