---
authorName: chris duncan
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: chris duncan &lt;krisdunncan@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENBTjBrVmJZS3VRcytlc3BodFc2TkdOeWtaZlQxcWtLbWRpMmFQPUxpYTBjelliLWgrUUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBQzNUZ3llMk1wanEwTUNSRXdQRW5HZ1RIK0M3RWc4ZkxUZVRwMEtCalpGNnlQMS1kd0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PENBTjBrVmJZS3VRcytlc3BodFc2TkdOeWtaZlQxcWtLbWRpMmFQPUxpYTBjelliLWgrUUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
layout: email
msgId: 2240
msgSnippet: 'What the XXXX has this got to do with glosa ? people here are already
  know that english is not the most logical language to choose . Thats why they are
  here. '
nextInTime: 2241
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1331250219'
prevInTime: 2239
prevInTopic: 2211
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: HuvMKYbp5t3BrHA9w21I4M8gsiJKWWc1wW73RZb43f_uNgsQijSIJKtHiJTo21VmbucR2qsXiBTjzFtaC-5ED3IqelLLtAz-8SYN
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Glosa good--English crazy'
topicId: 2211
userId: 459066750
---

What the XXXX has this got to do with glosa ? people here are already know
=
that english is not the most logical language to choose . Thats why they
ar=
e here.

On 15 February 2012 20:35, xon tiffany <poseidon7neptune@...=
> wrote:

> **
>
>
> ENGLISH AS SHE IS SPOKE ......=E2=80=8F
>
> You think =
English is easy? Look how these words are used:
>
> 1) The bandage was woun=
d around the wound.
>
> 2) The farm was used to produce produce.
>
> 3) The=
 dump was so full that it had to refuse more refuse.
>
> 4) We must polish =
the Polish furniture..
>
> 5) He could lead if he would get the lead out.
>=

> 6) The soldier decided to desert his dessert in the desert..
>
> 7) Sinc=
e there is no time like the present, he thought it was time to
> present th=
e present.
>
> 8) A bass was painted on the head of the bass drum.
>
> 9) W=
hen shot at, the dove dove into the bushes.
>
> 10) I did not object to the=
 object.
>
> 11) The insurance was invalid for the invalid.
>
> 12) There w=
as a row among the oarsmen about how to row.
>
> 13) They were too close to=
 the door to close it.
>
> 14) The buck does funny things when the does are=
 present.
>
> 15) A seamstress and a sewer fell down into a sewer line.
>
>=
 16) To help with planting, the farmer taught his sow to sow.
>
> 17) The w=
ind was too strong to wind the sail.
>
> 18) Upon seeing the tear in the pa=
inting I shed a tear..
>
> 19) I had to subject the subject to a series of =
tests.
>
> 20) How can I intimate this to my most intimate friend?
>
> Let'=
s face it - English is a crazy language. There is no egg in
> eggplant, nor=
 ham in hamburger; neither apple nor pine in pineapple.
> English muffins w=
eren't invented in England or French fries in France
> . Sweetmeats are can=
dies while sweetbreads, which aren't sweet, are
> meat. We take English for=
 granted. But if we explore its paradoxes, we
> find that quicksand can wor=
k slowly, boxing rings are square and a
> guinea pig is neither from Guinea=
 nor is it a pig..
>
> And why is it that writers write but fingers don't f=
ing, grocers don't
> groce and hammers don't ham? If the plural of tooth is=
 teeth, why
> isn't the plural of booth, beeth? One goose, 2 geese. So one =
moose, 2
> meese? One index, 2 indices? Doesn't it seem crazy that you can =
make
> amends but not one amend? If you have a bunch of odds and ends and g=
et
> rid of all but one of them, what do you call it?
>
> If teachers taugh=
t, why didn't preachers praught? If a vegetarian eats
> vegetables, what do=
es a humanitarian eat? Sometimes I think all the
> English speakers should =
be committed to an asylum for the verbally
> insane. In what language do pe=
ople recite at a play and play at a
> recital? Ship by truck and send cargo=
 by ship? Have noses that run and
> feet that smell?
>
> How can a slim cha=
nce and a fat chance be the same, while a wise man
> and a wise guy are opp=
osites? You have to marvel at the unique lunacy
> of a language in which yo=
ur house can burn up as it burns down, in
> which you fill in a form by fil=
ling it out and in which, an alarm goes
> off by going on.
>
> English was =
invented by people, not computers, and it reflects the
> creativity of the =
human race, which, of course, is not a race at all.
> That is why, when the=
 stars are out, they are visible, but when the
> lights are out, they are i=
nvisible.
>
> PS. - Why doesn't 'Buick' rhyme with 'quick' ?
>
> You lovers=
 of the English language might enjoy this ..
>
> There is a two-letter word=
 that perhaps has more meanings than any
> other two-letter word, and that =
is 'UP.'
>
> It's easy to understand UP, meaning toward the sky or at the t=
op of
> the list, but when we awaken in the morning, why do we wake UP ?
> =
At a meeting, why does a topic come UP?
> Why do we speak UP and why are th=
e officers UP for election and why is
> it UP to the secretary to write UP =
a report?
> We call UP our friends.
> And we use it to brighten UP a room, =
polish UP the silver; we warm UP
> the leftovers and clean UP the kitchen.
=
> We lock UP the house and some guys fix UP the old car.
> At other times t=
he little word has real special meaning.
> People stir UP trouble, line UP =
for tickets, work UP an appetite, and
> think UP excuses.
> To be dressed i=
s one thing, but to be dressed UP is special.
> A drain must be opened UP b=
ecause it is stopped UP.
> We open UP a store in the morning but we close i=
t UP at night.
>
> We seem to be pretty mixed UP about UP!
> To be knowledg=
eable about the proper uses of UP, look the word UP in
> the dictionary.
> =
In a desk-sized dictionary, it takes UP almost 1/4th of the page and
> can =
add UP to about thirty definitions.
> If you are UP to it, you might try bu=
ilding UP a list of the many ways
> UP is used.
> It will take UP a lot of =
your time, but if you don't give UP, you may
> wind UP with a hundred or mo=
re
> When it threatens to rain, we say it is clouding UP.
> When the sun co=
mes out we say it is clearing UP.
> When it rains, it wets the earth and of=
ten messes things UP.
> When it doesn't rain for a while, things dry UP.
>
=
> One could go on and on, but I'll wrap it UP,
> for now my time is UP,
> s=
o.......it is time to shut UP!
> Now it's UP to you what you do with this i=
nfo.
>  
>



-- 
C. D .


[Non-text portions of this message have been rem=
oved]


