---
authorName: Xavier Abadia
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Xavier Abadia&quot; &lt;xabadiar@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGppb2Y1dSs2aGMxQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGprOWdlYitjNTVyQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2248
msgSnippet: Dear Stephan, and Gary. Here the point is not freedom. Of course we are
  free to go beyond Peano, who restricted himself to the ablative form of nouns (bucca,
nextInTime: 2249
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1332233483'
prevInTime: 2247
prevInTopic: 2232
profile: xabadiar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: kKeEnO63-1W8CpffpFPGKN0ILRlCaAb50WOzILTxy_5tSGpCY2w73T9ZguF10VvtM2aoYi5qQPgNWU36KcQ7sOiWPR9HHcQBtZIx
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '3'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Word Derivation 2'
topicId: 2230
userId: 472762895
---

Dear Stephan, and Gary.
Here the point is not freedom. Of course we are fre=
e to go beyond Peano, who restricted himself to the ablative form of nouns =
(bucca, pilo, pede, capite, manu, facie). Here the point is information: we=
 should have a serious dictionary showing the etymologic keys. Otherwise, I=
 agree with Stephan, the endings often seem to be arbitrary.
By the other h=
and, the Glosa authors did really say that the last vowel of the word is no=
t important? I'd like to see it quoted.

I don't agree with Stephan that to=
 chose a fixed meaning for a root is too difficult. For example "stat-" mig=
ht mean "to be in a certain state, especially upright". There is often an e=
tymologic meaning quite clear and we must learn it. A useful trick was teac=
hed by Ogben, the inventor of Basic English: we may get the whole meaning o=
f a word by including a special submeaning ("stat. : ... especially upright=
").

Greetings.

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Stephan Schneider" <ste=
fichjo@...> wrote:
>
> Dear Gary and dear Glosa-people,
> 
> I can see you =
point, which was my problem with Glosa in the first place. Arbitrary ending=
s are not an option for me, I find them too hard to memorize. On the other =
hand, it is difficult to chose a meaning for a root like "stat" for instanc=
e: It could mean anything from "stand", "station", "state", "status" includ=
ing their different meanings. Which is why I came up with forms like "stati=
", "statio", "statione", "statu", "statura", "stato", "status" based on Lat=
in (Interlingua). Glosa does something similar with "nati" (birth) and "nat=
io" (nation). I have made similar modifications to greek words with regular=
 formations of "grafi", "grafia", "grafa", "grafe", "grafo".
> 
> This is w=
hy a made my own dialect of Glosa - "Glota", which you can find here:
> htt=
p://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/glotalist/
> 
> You're all invited. :)
> 
>=
 Thank you very much for your answers.
> 
> Regards,
> Stephan
> --- In glo=
salist@yahoogroups.com, Gary Miller <gmillernd@> wrote:
> >
> > Stephan-
> =
> 
> > So far the Glosa authors have taken a different attitude toward the
=
> > last vowels of words. They have said:
> > 
> > 1) Since the last vowel =
of the word is simply there to ease
> > pronunciation, it is not important =
(except for a few words such as
> > HOMO/HOMI, AMO/AMI). Therefore the word=
s NOKTU, NOKTE, NOKTO should
> > all be understood as "night" to a Glosist.=

> > 
> > 2) The vocabulary of Interlingua is also useful for use in Glosa.=
 This
> > again shows a lot of freedom in picking the last vowel.
> > 
> > =
So you see the attitude is actually toward allowing a variety of word
> > e=
ndings, rather than narrowing the endings to just one. I don't think
> > th=
ey would care if you used many of the word endings you proposed.
> > 
> > S=
aluta,
> > _ _
> > /.
> > /\ =A0 Gary
> > #
> >
>



