---
authorName: Xavier Abadia
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Xavier Abadia&quot; &lt;xabadiar@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENBR2JLaUxwOUFOQzJNd1dfZDZQek1RQys4RzBSS01iWmtmWnpTa2hCYkJCdzNnNFNQd0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGprcWR2OStxYzYwQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2256
msgSnippet: Dear Gary, it s natural that this discussion is happening on and on. People
  may get astonished at the dictionary (as I did) when they find many translations
nextInTime: 2257
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1332788009'
prevInTime: 2255
prevInTopic: 2252
profile: xabadiar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: JYcw9hYVS598KsvwH2LgIBecRFo2yC978yoLy5rCVkkGL5iLKJSbQ754z_6EKNGPmeHKO_SebK0e9bC92Ba5iWkW9bVjc_DUSdyO
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '3'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Plu verba fini'
topicId: 2251
userId: 472762895
---

Dear Gary,
it's natural that this discussion is happening on and on. People=
 may get
astonished at the dictionary (as I did) when they find many transl=
ations for a
certain word, some just differing on the final vowel! This way=
 the morphology of
the language may look chaotic. Of course this may be due=
 to the early Glosa
textbooks. Anyway, the problem remains.

In my viewpoin=
t there are three options:

1. Since the final vowel is not important, and =
it is only there to ease
pronunciation, so let's give a certain final vowel=
 to all words. -E is the
characteristic vowel of the main Latin declension =
(the 3rd) and it is the
characteristic ending of verbs, at their infinitive=
 -re. I am really testing
this -E option with a reformed Latino Sine Flexio=
ne.

2. To try a systematic morphology plan, like Hogben's (verboids in -E,=
 nouns in
-A or -I, modifiers in -O). Hogben's plan is not optimal, it has =
many exceptions
(http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interglossa#.E2.80.9CSentence=
-landscape.E2.80.9D).
Peano's plan was not optimal too. Again, the plan Ste=
phan is suggesting seems
not optimal to me.

3. The option followed by the =
GID, an hybrid of the previous two. Even knowing that final vowels are not =
important, they keep a huge amount of words with differing final vowels, so=
me from the early Glosa textbooks, some from the late Glosa textbooks, and =
they let them
all enter the GID dictionary with no discrimination. This is =
a poor option in my opinion.

The question is, did the Glosa authors really=
 improve the morphology plan of
Hogben? I think it is the responsibility of=
 Mrs Wendy Ashby to answer yes, no,
or whatever. If no, let's go back to Ho=
gben's. If yes, let's chose one Glosa
textbook as the official introduction=
 to the lexicon and grammar.

Greetings.

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com,=
 Gary Miller <gmillernd@...> wrote:
>
> Xavier-
> 
> The discussion about t=
he final vowel on Glosa words has happened many times.
> \ /
> (+) U diskus=
i de u fini vokali de plu Glosa verba pa gene acide poli kron.
> 
> The ear=
ly Glosa textbooks had many variations; for example:
> \ /
> (+) Plu proto =
Glosa sko bibli pa habe poli difere. Exempla:
> 
> alelo/aleli
> diala/dial=
i
> koragio/koragi
> negotia/negoti
> nexi/nexu
> sugo/suge
> talo/tali
> 
=
> Of course, people asked what the right spellings were.
> \ /
> (+) Sura, =
plu lekto-pe dice u qestio; plu korekti grafo es qo.
> 
> The response was =
the final vowel is not important, and it is only
> there to ease pronunciat=
ion.
> \ /
> (+) U reakti pa es; u fini vokali ne es importa, plus id es la=
 simpli
> de sti ma facili dice soni.
> 
> Hogben in INTERGLOSSA also did n=
ot try to keep the classical
> conjugation/declension endings.
> \ /
> (+) =
Plus Hogben per INTERGLOSSA ne tenta tena plu paleo Latino/Helena
> ankti-v=
erba/nomina-verba verba fini.
> 
> His plan was verboids end in -E, nouns i=
n -A or -I, modifiers in -O.
> \ /
> (+) An skema es; plu akti verba (verbo=
ids) habe u fini -E, nomina
> verba -A alo -I, plu deskribe verba -O.
> 
> =
He also listed many exceptions and said there is to be no difference
> betw=
een verbs, nouns, and modifiers.
> \ /
> (+) An plus lista poli excepti, e =
dice; debi es zero difere inter plu
> akti, nomina e deskribe verba.
> 
> I=
 love Latin, and find endings such as Stephan proposes to be beautiful.
> \=
 /
> (+) Mi este filo de Latino (u fo-paleo Roma lingua), e detekti plu
> t=
ali verba fini; homo Stephan pre deklara, es veri kali.
> 
> I also find th=
at as I get older, I CAN'T REMEMBER ANY OF THEM ANYWAY!
> \ /
> (+) Mi plus=
 detekti, tem mi gene es ma paleo; MI NE POTE MEMO PANTO MU!
> 
> I simply =
prefer what is the easiest.
> \ /
> (+) Mi simpli ma amo plu ra; qi es maxi=
 facili.
> 
> Saluta,
> _ _
> /.
> /\ =A0 Gary
> #
>



