---
authorName: Gary Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary Miller &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBR2JLaUxxTEptanh0TFFGazBYZ2pPMmRva0plRHJzbmNhVkZSMzVCYVdLej1xTGcwd0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2260
msgSnippet: 'STEPHAN: Do you mean, you can t remember Latin endings, the endings I
  proposed or (some) Glosa endings? REAKTI: I used to be fairly fluent in Russian
  and'
nextInTime: 2261
nextInTopic: 2262
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1333206328'
prevInTime: 2259
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: TnJjj6ZjmLqxfrSbLFeYS3lO7-0w5j1tZ1TPcUerfmghtsen3Kzh2VbWCBM4P2wxS_O9X-Tafa584JgzqGlJ-0ZuyGFoabzV
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Stephan, Xavier
topicId: 2260
userId: 486875979
---

STEPHAN: Do you mean, you can't remember Latin endings, the endings I
propo=
sed or (some) Glosa endings?

REAKTI: I used to be fairly fluent in Russian=
 and German. No more!
Languages are like most other things in life: They're=
 a lot easier
when you're young. I still remember Glosa - mostly. I'm not e=
ven sure
my own name ends in Y anymore. :-)

STEPHAN: And, what is the easi=
est? Root ending derivation rules like
the ones I propose wouldn't make Glo=
sa (or Glota) any more difficult,
because you don't need to learn them (the=
y are not productive as in
Esperanto). You just need to know that "hand" is=
 "manu" and not "mani"
(as in "manipulate"), and that "nati" is "birth" and=
 that "natio" is
"nation" and not the other way round. That is the same "ea=
siest" as
before, isn't it? Glosa words like "manu", "nati" and "natio" are=
 the
same in Glota (my dialect). But they do follow root ending derivation
=
rules, which shows that Glosa could have had them, too, and in some
cases e=
ven gives the impression of having them.

REAKTI: The one you remember is t=
he easiest. It's like this: Glosa
derives its vocabulary from modern Latin =
and Greek
scientific/technical words. MANU is the preferred Glosa word. If =
I
can't remember MANU, but I remember the English word MANIPULATE and
deriv=
e the word as MANI instead, I have not made a mistake. I like not
making mi=
stakes. :-)

XAVIER: it's natural that this discussion is happening on and =
on.
People may get astonished at the dictionary (as I did) when they find
m=
any translations for a certain word, some just differing on the final
vowel=
! This way the morphology of the language may look chaotic. Of
course this =
may be due to the early Glosa textbooks. Anyway, the
problem remains.

REAK=
TI: When one realizes that Glosa words are derived from varying
words from =
varying languages, one would expect the ends of the Glosa
words to vary too=
.

XAVIER: In my viewpoint are three options:

1. Since the final vowel is =
not important, and it is only there to
ease pronunciation, so let's give a =
certain final vowel to all words.
-E is the characteristic vowel of the mai=
n Latin declension (the 3rd)
and it is the characteristic ending of verbs, =
at their infinitive -re.
I am really testing this -E option with a reformed=
 Latino Sine
Flexione.

REAKTI: I would argue that there is no characterist=
ic vowel in the
original Latin. Latin speakers themselves added the E to ma=
ke
pronunciation easy. This E is often unstressed in the original Latin,
is=
 missing in such forms as ESSE and FERRE and FAC and DIC. I agree
that addi=
ng the E in man-made language plans is a good idea.

* * *

Different inter=
national language plans have used different means of
obtaining their base v=
ocabulary. LSF did this directly from Latin,
Esperanto from a mix of modern=
 Romance and Germanic words, Glosa from
modern scientific/technical terms, =
Lojban from languages all over the
world. There is nothing wrong with any o=
f these plans, they are simply
different.

Good luck with Glota! Maybe it w=
ill finally be the right one. You'll
find there is no shortage of critics o=
ut there. :-) But the real trick
is to get people to USE the language. Most=
 people who criticize these
languages rarely read or write more than a few =
sentences.

When I started studying the international language problem, I w=
anted
to test the languages by using them. (I still use LSF a little; see
g=
roups.yahoo.com/group/latinosineflexione.) Glosa was the one I
learned the =
fastest. I also feel it most freely expresses ideas.

Even more important i=
s support. No international language will be
successful without a group of =
people actively promoting it. Esperanto
has the most support, therefore it =
is the one most people hear about.

Saluta,
_ _
/.
/\ =A0 Garx
#

