---
authorName: Ian Niles
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Ian Niles &lt;ian_niles@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENBR2JLaUxxTEptanh0TFFGazBYZ2pPMmRva0plRHJzbmNhVkZSMzVCYVdLej1xTGcwd0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENPTDEwNS1XNTE3Qzk3QzkyOTJFNERBRDgxMTZFQjhCNEMwQHBoeC5nYmw+
headers.referencesHeader: PENBR2JLaUxxTEptanh0TFFGazBYZ2pPMmRva0plRHJzbmNhVkZSMzVCYVdLej1xTGcwd0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
layout: email
msgId: 2262
msgSnippet: A couple of comments.  I think we can all agree that, all thing being
  equal, it is preferable for a derivation scheme for words of an IAL to be based
  on
nextInTime: 2263
nextInTopic: 2263
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1333384265'
prevInTime: 2261
prevInTopic: 2260
profile: ian_niles
replyTo: LIST
senderId: t6YRrxiwWa3KUDDsve-mZvBmOZIx8RJoXOXz7CSsffRRgJthWWsj2vhdVaXoEIDKTGewj81O-5aKcMDCS0EUwqfvzYY01_qd
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'RE: [glosalist] Stephan, Xavier'
topicId: 2260
userId: 135517454
---


A couple of comments.  I think we can all agree that, all thing being equa=
l, it is preferable for a derivation scheme for words of an IAL to be based=
 on ancient Greek/Latin roots (a la LsF), rather than on a set of English w=
ords.  For one thing, if we suppose that all speakers of a given IAL are fl=
uent in English, then there is of course no point to an IAL.  For another t=
hing, the words of many modern languages are often systematically derived f=
rom ancient Greek/Latin, so if you know how words in your language are deri=
ved from ancient Greek/Latin and there is a derivation rule from the classi=
cal roots to the IAL, you can generate a good body of vocabulary for the IA=
L automatically, regardless of which modern European language you start fro=
m.  Incidentally, this is one feature I really like about Occidental/Interl=
ingue.   That being said, any convincing proposal to revise a language, whe=
ther a natural language or an IAL, does not come in the form of an edict.  =
It comes in the form of a signficant body of content that is expressed usin=
g the revised version of the language.  This can be seen as the experimenta=
l justification for the proposal, and the community (or a community) can ju=
dge whether or not it's an improvent over the original version.  -Ian
 To: =
glosalist@yahoogroups.com
From: gmillernd@...
Date: Sat, 31 Mar 2012 =
10:05:28 -0500
Subject: [glosalist] Stephan, Xavier


















 



=
  


    
      
      
      STEPHAN: Do you mean, you can't remember Lati=
n endings, the endings I

proposed or (some) Glosa endings?



REAKTI: I us=
ed to be fairly fluent in Russian and German. No more!

Languages are like =
most other things in life: They're a lot easier

when you're young. I still=
 remember Glosa - mostly. I'm not even sure

my own name ends in Y anymore.=
 :-)



STEPHAN: And, what is the easiest? Root ending derivation rules lik=
e

the ones I propose wouldn't make Glosa (or Glota) any more difficult,

b=
ecause you don't need to learn them (they are not productive as in

Esperan=
to). You just need to know that "hand" is "manu" and not "mani"

(as in "ma=
nipulate"), and that "nati" is "birth" and that "natio" is

"nation" and no=
t the other way round. That is the same "easiest" as

before, isn't it? Glo=
sa words like "manu", "nati" and "natio" are the

same in Glota (my dialect=
). But they do follow root ending derivation

rules, which shows that Glosa=
 could have had them, too, and in some

cases even gives the impression of =
having them.



REAKTI: The one you remember is the easiest. It's like this=
: Glosa

derives its vocabulary from modern Latin and Greek

scientific/tec=
hnical words. MANU is the preferred Glosa word. If I

can't remember MANU, =
but I remember the English word MANIPULATE and

derive the word as MANI ins=
tead, I have not made a mistake. I like not

making mistakes. :-)



XAVIER=
: it's natural that this discussion is happening on and on.

People may get=
 astonished at the dictionary (as I did) when they find

many translations =
for a certain word, some just differing on the final

vowel! This way the m=
orphology of the language may look chaotic. Of

course this may be due to t=
he early Glosa textbooks. Anyway, the

problem remains.



REAKTI: When one=
 realizes that Glosa words are derived from varying

words from varying lan=
guages, one would expect the ends of the Glosa

words to vary too.



XAVIE=
R: In my viewpoint are three options:



1. Since the final vowel is not im=
portant, and it is only there to

ease pronunciation, so let's give a certa=
in final vowel to all words.

-E is the characteristic vowel of the main La=
tin declension (the 3rd)

and it is the characteristic ending of verbs, at =
their infinitive -re.

I am really testing this -E option with a reformed L=
atino Sine

Flexione.



REAKTI: I would argue that there is no characteris=
tic vowel in the

original Latin. Latin speakers themselves added the E to =
make

pronunciation easy. This E is often unstressed in the original Latin,=


is missing in such forms as ESSE and FERRE and FAC and DIC. I agree

that=
 adding the E in man-made language plans is a good idea.



* * *



Differ=
ent international language plans have used different means of

obtaining th=
eir base vocabulary. LSF did this directly from Latin,

Esperanto from a mi=
x of modern Romance and Germanic words, Glosa from

modern scientific/techn=
ical terms, Lojban from languages all over the

world. There is nothing wro=
ng with any of these plans, they are simply

different.



Good luck with G=
lota! Maybe it will finally be the right one. You'll

find there is no shor=
tage of critics out there. :-) But the real trick

is to get people to USE =
the language. Most people who criticize these

languages rarely read or wri=
te more than a few sentences.



When I started studying the international =
language problem, I wanted

to test the languages by using them. (I still u=
se LSF a little; see

groups.yahoo.com/group/latinosineflexione.) Glosa was=
 the one I

learned the fastest. I also feel it most freely expresses ideas=
.



Even more important is support. No international language will be

suc=
cessful without a group of people actively promoting it. Esperanto

has the=
 most support, therefore it is the one most people hear about.



Saluta,

=
_ _

/.

/\   Garx

#



    
     

    
    






   		 	   		  

[Non-t=
ext portions of this message have been removed]


