---
authorName: Xavier Abadia
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Xavier Abadia&quot; &lt;xabadiar@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENPTDEwNS1XNTE3Qzk3QzkyOTJFNERBRDgxMTZFQjhCNEMwQHBoeC5nYmw+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGpsZW1odStvdTcwQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2264
msgSnippet: Absolutely, Ian. My criticism is especially against the GID dictionary,
  for not showing a clear standard of the language. The lack of a standard is a serious
nextInTime: 2265
nextInTopic: 2265
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1333452158'
prevInTime: 2263
prevInTopic: 2263
profile: xabadiar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: H0vEzmO2dXK72cAviN6vsx1ozPKkTelhq4hZrzaJ6QLa1h6gbM8cRtDZDKCxThvx7sFXVbTlH9675-13OWGOeUgesYyyuY0jMAD2
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Stephan, Xavier'
topicId: 2260
userId: 472762895
---

Absolutely, Ian. My criticism is especially against the GID dictionary, for=
 not showing a clear standard of the language. The lack of a standard is a =
serious handicap to an auxiliary language. Instead, the GID seems to gather=
 blindly the vocabulary of all the subsequent dictionaries of Clark and Ash=
by. I wonder what "significant body of content" was taken as the basis of t=
he GID. Maybe "Plu Glosa Nota"? By the way, I wish I could find "Plu Glosa =
Nota" online.
Greetings.

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Ian Niles <ian_=
niles@...> wrote:
>
> 
> A couple of comments.  I think we can all agree th=
at, all thing being equal, it is preferable for a derivation scheme for wor=
ds of an IAL to be based on ancient Greek/Latin roots (a la LsF), rather th=
an on a set of English words.  For one thing, if we suppose that all speake=
rs of a given IAL are fluent in English, then there is of course no point t=
o an IAL.  For another thing, the words of many modern languages are often =
systematically derived from ancient Greek/Latin, so if you know how words i=
n your language are derived from ancient Greek/Latin and there is a derivat=
ion rule from the classical roots to the IAL, you can generate a good body =
of vocabulary for the IAL automatically, regardless of which modern Europea=
n language you start from.  Incidentally, this is one feature I really like=
 about Occidental/Interlingue.   That being said, any convincing proposal t=
o revise a language, whether a natural language or an IAL, does not come in=
 the form of an edict.  It comes in the form of a signficant body of conten=
t that is expressed using the revised version of the language.  This can be=
 seen as the experimental justification for the proposal, and the community=
 (or a community) can judge whether or not it's an improvent over the origi=
nal version.  -Ian

>  To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
> From: gmillernd@...
=
> Date: Sat, 31 Mar 2012 10:05:28 -0500
> Subject: [glosalist] Stephan, Xav=
ier
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  
> 
> 
> 
>   =

> 
> 
>     
>       
>       
>       STEPHAN: Do you mean, you can't rem=
ember Latin endings, the endings I
> 
> proposed or (some) Glosa endings?
>=
 
> 
> 
> REAKTI: I used to be fairly fluent in Russian and German. No more=
!
> 
> Languages are like most other things in life: They're a lot easier
>=
 
> when you're young. I still remember Glosa - mostly. I'm not even sure
>=
 
> my own name ends in Y anymore. :-)
> 
> 
> 
> STEPHAN: And, what is the=
 easiest? Root ending derivation rules like
> 
> the ones I propose wouldn'=
t make Glosa (or Glota) any more difficult,
> 
> because you don't need to =
learn them (they are not productive as in
> 
> Esperanto). You just need to=
 know that "hand" is "manu" and not "mani"
> 
> (as in "manipulate"), and t=
hat "nati" is "birth" and that "natio" is
> 
> "nation" and not the other w=
ay round. That is the same "easiest" as
> 
> before, isn't it? Glosa words =
like "manu", "nati" and "natio" are the
> 
> same in Glota (my dialect). Bu=
t they do follow root ending derivation
> 
> rules, which shows that Glosa =
could have had them, too, and in some
> 
> cases even gives the impression =
of having them.
> 
> 
> 
> REAKTI: The one you remember is the easiest. It'=
s like this: Glosa
> 
> derives its vocabulary from modern Latin and Greek
=
> 
> scientific/technical words. MANU is the preferred Glosa word. If I
> 
=
> can't remember MANU, but I remember the English word MANIPULATE and
> 
> =
derive the word as MANI instead, I have not made a mistake. I like not
> 
>=
 making mistakes. :-)
> 
> 
> 
> XAVIER: it's natural that this discussion =
is happening on and on.
> 
> People may get astonished at the dictionary (a=
s I did) when they find
> 
> many translations for a certain word, some jus=
t differing on the final
> 
> vowel! This way the morphology of the languag=
e may look chaotic. Of
> 
> course this may be due to the early Glosa textb=
ooks. Anyway, the
> 
> problem remains.
> 
> 
> 
> REAKTI: When one realize=
s that Glosa words are derived from varying
> 
> words from varying languag=
es, one would expect the ends of the Glosa
> 
> words to vary too.
> 
> 
> =

> XAVIER: In my viewpoint are three options:
> 
> 
> 
> 1. Since the final=
 vowel is not important, and it is only there to
> 
> ease pronunciation, s=
o let's give a certain final vowel to all words.
> 
> -E is the characteris=
tic vowel of the main Latin declension (the 3rd)
> 
> and it is the charact=
eristic ending of verbs, at their infinitive -re.
> 
> I am really testing =
this -E option with a reformed Latino Sine
> 
> Flexione.
> 
> 
> 
> REAKTI=
: I would argue that there is no characteristic vowel in the
> 
> original =
Latin. Latin speakers themselves added the E to make
> 
> pronunciation eas=
y. This E is often unstressed in the original Latin,
> 
> is missing in suc=
h forms as ESSE and FERRE and FAC and DIC. I agree
> 
> that adding the E i=
n man-made language plans is a good idea.
> 
> 
> 
> * * *
> 
> 
> 
> Diffe=
rent international language plans have used different means of
> 
> obtaini=
ng their base vocabulary. LSF did this directly from Latin,
> 
> Esperanto =
from a mix of modern Romance and Germanic words, Glosa from
> 
> modern sci=
entific/technical terms, Lojban from languages all over the
> 
> world. The=
re is nothing wrong with any of these plans, they are simply
> 
> different=
.
> 
> 
> 
> Good luck with Glota! Maybe it will finally be the right one. =
You'll
> 
> find there is no shortage of critics out there. :-) But the rea=
l trick
> 
> is to get people to USE the language. Most people who criticiz=
e these
> 
> languages rarely read or write more than a few sentences.
> 
>=
 
> 
> When I started studying the international language problem, I wanted=

> 
> to test the languages by using them. (I still use LSF a little; see
>=
 
> groups.yahoo.com/group/latinosineflexione.) Glosa was the one I
> 
> le=
arned the fastest. I also feel it most freely expresses ideas.
> 
> 
> 
> E=
ven more important is support. No international language will be
> 
> succe=
ssful without a group of people actively promoting it. Esperanto
> 
> has t=
he most support, therefore it is the one most people hear about.
> 
> 
> 
>=
 Saluta,
> 
> _ _
> 
> /.
> 
> /\   Garx
> 
> #
> 
> 
> 
>     
>      
> 
=
>     
>     
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
>    		 	   		  
> 
> [Non-text portions of=
 this message have been removed]
>



