---
authorName: Ian Niles
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Ian Niles &lt;ian_niles@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGpsZW1odStvdTcwQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENPTDEwNS1XOUUwQUNFMUI5MDUwRUJDNTA3M0MzOEI0RDBAcGh4LmdibD4=
headers.referencesHeader: PENPTDEwNS1XNTE3Qzk3QzkyOTJFNERBRDgxMTZFQjhCNEMwQHBoeC5nYmw+LDxqbGVtaHUrb3U3MEBlR3JvdXBzLmNvbT4=
layout: email
msgId: 2265
msgSnippet: I disagree with your criticisms of the GID, Xavier.  I think we owe an
  enormous debt of gratitude to Marcel Springer and the other folks who spent long
  hours
nextInTime: 2266
nextInTopic: 2267
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1333468329'
prevInTime: 2264
prevInTopic: 2264
profile: ian_niles
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Q06WdciR-TqAL-sjsEGFnFPBmzcXo04ZdjUsRjT3B_jhfqqXhoW4CwgymmqHpsn0pvFrNPkn36fO2lZRiBB2-ggxJ80440sR
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'RE: [glosalist] Re: Stephan, Xavier'
topicId: 2260
userId: 135517454
---


I disagree with your criticisms of the GID, Xavier.  I think we owe an eno=
rmous debt of gratitude to Marcel Springer and the other folks who spent lo=
ng hours culling through all of the Glosa resources to compile this diction=
ary.  It's not perfect, but I believe that it's on the same level as a fore=
ign language dictionary created by professional (and paid) lexicographers. =
 Every time I translate one of Aesop's fables, I rely on the GID and I am e=
ver grateful for its clear, comprehensive guidance in all things Glosa. By =
the way, you can find several issues of "Plu Glosa Nota" here:  http://www.=
glosa.org/pgn/index.html. -Ian    
 To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
From: xab=
adiar@...
Date: Tue, 3 Apr 2012 11:22:38 +0000
Subject: [glosalist] R=
e: Stephan, Xavier


















 



  


    
      
      
      Abs=
olutely, Ian. My criticism is especially against the GID dictionary, for no=
t showing a clear standard of the language. The lack of a standard is a ser=
ious handicap to an auxiliary language. Instead, the GID seems to gather bl=
indly the vocabulary of all the subsequent dictionaries of Clark and Ashby.=
 I wonder what "significant body of content" was taken as the basis of the =
GID. Maybe "Plu Glosa Nota"? By the way, I wish I could find "Plu Glosa Not=
a" online.

Greetings.



--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Ian Niles <ian_=
niles@...> wrote:

>

> 

> A couple of comments.  I think we can all agree=
 that, all thing being equal, it is preferable for a derivation scheme for =
words of an IAL to be based on ancient Greek/Latin roots (a la LsF), rather=
 than on a set of English words.  For one thing, if we suppose that all spe=
akers of a given IAL are fluent in English, then there is of course no poin=
t to an IAL.  For another thing, the words of many modern languages are oft=
en systematically derived from ancient Greek/Latin, so if you know how word=
s in your language are derived from ancient Greek/Latin and there is a deri=
vation rule from the classical roots to the IAL, you can generate a good bo=
dy of vocabulary for the IAL automatically, regardless of which modern Euro=
pean language you start from.  Incidentally, this is one feature I really l=
ike about Occidental/Interlingue.   That being said, any convincing proposa=
l to revise a language, whether a natural language or an IAL, does not come=
 in the form of an edict.  It comes in the form of a signficant body of con=
tent that is expressed using the revised version of the language.  This can=
 be seen as the experimental justification for the proposal, and the commun=
ity (or a community) can judge whether or not it's an improvent over the or=
iginal version.  -Ian



>  To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com

> From: gmillern=
d@...

> Date: Sat, 31 Mar 2012 10:05:28 -0500

> Subject: [glosalist] Step=
han, Xavier

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> 

> =


> 

> 

>  

> 

> 

> 

>   

> 

> 

>     

>       

>       

>     =
  STEPHAN: Do you mean, you can't remember Latin endings, the endings I

> =


> proposed or (some) Glosa endings?

> 

> 

> 

> REAKTI: I used to be f=
airly fluent in Russian and German. No more!

> 

> Languages are like most=
 other things in life: They're a lot easier

> 

> when you're young. I sti=
ll remember Glosa - mostly. I'm not even sure

> 

> my own name ends in Y =
anymore. :-)

> 

> 

> 

> STEPHAN: And, what is the easiest? Root ending =
derivation rules like

> 

> the ones I propose wouldn't make Glosa (or Glo=
ta) any more difficult,

> 

> because you don't need to learn them (they a=
re not productive as in

> 

> Esperanto). You just need to know that "hand=
" is "manu" and not "mani"

> 

> (as in "manipulate"), and that "nati" is =
"birth" and that "natio" is

> 

> "nation" and not the other way round. Th=
at is the same "easiest" as

> 

> before, isn't it? Glosa words like "manu=
", "nati" and "natio" are the

> 

> same in Glota (my dialect). But they d=
o follow root ending derivation

> 

> rules, which shows that Glosa could =
have had them, too, and in some

> 

> cases even gives the impression of h=
aving them.

> 

> 

> 

> REAKTI: The one you remember is the easiest. It'=
s like this: Glosa

> 

> derives its vocabulary from modern Latin and Gree=
k

> 

> scientific/technical words. MANU is the preferred Glosa word. If I=


> 

> can't remember MANU, but I remember the English word MANIPULATE and=


> 

> derive the word as MANI instead, I have not made a mistake. I like =
not

> 

> making mistakes. :-)

> 

> 

> 

> XAVIER: it's natural that th=
is discussion is happening on and on.

> 

> People may get astonished at t=
he dictionary (as I did) when they find

> 

> many translations for a cert=
ain word, some just differing on the final

> 

> vowel! This way the morph=
ology of the language may look chaotic. Of

> 

> course this may be due to=
 the early Glosa textbooks. Anyway, the

> 

> problem remains.

> 

> 

> =


> REAKTI: When one realizes that Glosa words are derived from varying

> =


> words from varying languages, one would expect the ends of the Glosa

>=
 

> words to vary too.

> 

> 

> 

> XAVIER: In my viewpoint are three op=
tions:

> 

> 

> 

> 1. Since the final vowel is not important, and it is =
only there to

> 

> ease pronunciation, so let's give a certain final vowe=
l to all words.

> 

> -E is the characteristic vowel of the main Latin dec=
lension (the 3rd)

> 

> and it is the characteristic ending of verbs, at t=
heir infinitive -re.

> 

> I am really testing this -E option with a refor=
med Latino Sine

> 

> Flexione.

> 

> 

> 

> REAKTI: I would argue that =
there is no characteristic vowel in the

> 

> original Latin. Latin speake=
rs themselves added the E to make

> 

> pronunciation easy. This E is ofte=
n unstressed in the original Latin,

> 

> is missing in such forms as ESSE=
 and FERRE and FAC and DIC. I agree

> 

> that adding the E in man-made la=
nguage plans is a good idea.

> 

> 

> 

> * * *

> 

> 

> 

> Different =
international language plans have used different means of

> 

> obtaining =
their base vocabulary. LSF did this directly from Latin,

> 

> Esperanto f=
rom a mix of modern Romance and Germanic words, Glosa from

> 

> modern sc=
ientific/technical terms, Lojban from languages all over the

> 

> world. =
There is nothing wrong with any of these plans, they are simply

> 

> diff=
erent.

> 

> 

> 

> Good luck with Glota! Maybe it will finally be the ri=
ght one. You'll

> 

> find there is no shortage of critics out there. :-) =
But the real trick

> 

> is to get people to USE the language. Most people=
 who criticize these

> 

> languages rarely read or write more than a few =
sentences.

> 

> 

> 

> When I started studying the international languag=
e problem, I wanted

> 

> to test the languages by using them. (I still us=
e LSF a little; see

> 

> groups.yahoo.com/group/latinosineflexione.) Glos=
a was the one I

> 

> learned the fastest. I also feel it most freely expr=
esses ideas.

> 

> 

> 

> Even more important is support. No internationa=
l language will be

> 

> successful without a group of people actively pro=
moting it. Esperanto

> 

> has the most support, therefore it is the one m=
ost people hear about.

> 

> 

> 

> Saluta,

> 

> _ _

> 

> /.

> 

> /=
\   Garx

> 

> #

> 

> 

> 

>     

>      

> 

>     

>     

> 

> 
=

> 

> 

> 

> 

>    		 	   		  

> 

> [Non-text portions of this message=
 have been removed]

>





    
     

    
    






   		 	   		  

[No=
n-text portions of this message have been removed]


