---
authorName: Xavier Abadia
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Xavier Abadia&quot; &lt;xabadiar@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENPTDEwNS1XOUUwQUNFMUI5MDUwRUJDNTA3M0MzOEI0RDBAcGh4LmdibD4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGpsa25mMytjYmxlQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2267
msgSnippet: Thanks, Ian.
nextInTime: 2268
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1333649699'
prevInTime: 2266
prevInTopic: 2265
profile: xabadiar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: u1VX3WPxo-XLz727nosRTnLQRHsdOvJBt4IarSvo-aJ8PuI8tMYyGvBp4G66s8gZPgyADF3FZvIhQNSvJqU10IsWbcm5FAz9dUxF
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '3'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Stephan, Xavier'
topicId: 2260
userId: 472762895
---

Thanks, Ian.

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Ian Niles <ian_niles@...> w=
rote:
>
> 
> I disagree with your criticisms of the GID, Xavier.  I think w=
e owe an enormous debt of gratitude to Marcel Springer and the other folks =
who spent long hours culling through all of the Glosa resources to compile =
this dictionary.  It's not perfect, but I believe that it's on the same lev=
el as a foreign language dictionary created by professional (and paid) lexi=
cographers.  Every time I translate one of Aesop's fables, I rely on the GI=
D and I am ever grateful for its clear, comprehensive guidance in all thing=
s Glosa. By the way, you can find several issues of "Plu Glosa Nota" here: =
 http://www.glosa.org/pgn/index.html. -Ian    
>  To: glosalist@yahoogroups=
.com
> From: xabadiar@...
> Date: Tue, 3 Apr 2012 11:22:38 +0000
> Subject:=
 [glosalist] Re: Stephan, Xavier
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
=
> 
> 
> 
> 
>  
> 
> 
> 
>   
> 
> 
>     
>       
>       
>       Absolu=
tely, Ian. My criticism is especially against the GID dictionary, for not s=
howing a clear standard of the language. The lack of a standard is a seriou=
s handicap to an auxiliary language. Instead, the GID seems to gather blind=
ly the vocabulary of all the subsequent dictionaries of Clark and Ashby. I =
wonder what "significant body of content" was taken as the basis of the GID=
. Maybe "Plu Glosa Nota"? By the way, I wish I could find "Plu Glosa Nota" =
online.
> 
> Greetings.
> 
> 
> 
> --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Ian Ni=
les <ian_niles@> wrote:
> 
> >
> 
> > 
> 
> > A couple of comments.  I thin=
k we can all agree that, all thing being equal, it is preferable for a deri=
vation scheme for words of an IAL to be based on ancient Greek/Latin roots =
(a la LsF), rather than on a set of English words.  For one thing, if we su=
ppose that all speakers of a given IAL are fluent in English, then there is=
 of course no point to an IAL.  For another thing, the words of many modern=
 languages are often systematically derived from ancient Greek/Latin, so if=
 you know how words in your language are derived from ancient Greek/Latin a=
nd there is a derivation rule from the classical roots to the IAL, you can =
generate a good body of vocabulary for the IAL automatically, regardless of=
 which modern European language you start from.  Incidentally, this is one =
feature I really like about Occidental/Interlingue.   That being said, any =
convincing proposal to revise a language, whether a natural language or an =
IAL, does not come in the form of an edict.  It comes in the form of a sign=
ficant body of content that is expressed using the revised version of the l=
anguage.  This can be seen as the experimental justification for the propos=
al, and the community (or a community) can judge whether or not it's an imp=
rovent over the original version.  -Ian
> 
> 
> 
> >  To: glosalist@yahoogr=
oups.com
> 
> > From: gmillernd@
> 
> > Date: Sat, 31 Mar 2012 10:05:28 -05=
00
> 
> > Subject: [glosalist] Stephan, Xavier
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
>=
 > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > =

> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> >  
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
>=
 
> >   
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> >     
> 
> >       
> 
> >       
> 
> >    =
   STEPHAN: Do you mean, you can't remember Latin endings, the endings I
> =

> > 
> 
> > proposed or (some) Glosa endings?
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
>=
 > REAKTI: I used to be fairly fluent in Russian and German. No more!
> 
> =
> 
> 
> > Languages are like most other things in life: They're a lot easie=
r
> 
> > 
> 
> > when you're young. I still remember Glosa - mostly. I'm no=
t even sure
> 
> > 
> 
> > my own name ends in Y anymore. :-)
> 
> > 
> 
> =
> 
> 
> > 
> 
> > STEPHAN: And, what is the easiest? Root ending derivation=
 rules like
> 
> > 
> 
> > the ones I propose wouldn't make Glosa (or Glota=
) any more difficult,
> 
> > 
> 
> > because you don't need to learn them (=
they are not productive as in
> 
> > 
> 
> > Esperanto). You just need to k=
now that "hand" is "manu" and not "mani"
> 
> > 
> 
> > (as in "manipulate"=
), and that "nati" is "birth" and that "natio" is
> 
> > 
> 
> > "nation" a=
nd not the other way round. That is the same "easiest" as
> 
> > 
> 
> > be=
fore, isn't it? Glosa words like "manu", "nati" and "natio" are the
> 
> > =

> 
> > same in Glota (my dialect). But they do follow root ending derivati=
on
> 
> > 
> 
> > rules, which shows that Glosa could have had them, too, a=
nd in some
> 
> > 
> 
> > cases even gives the impression of having them.
>=
 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > REAKTI: The one you remember is the easiest. =
It's like this: Glosa
> 
> > 
> 
> > derives its vocabulary from modern Lat=
in and Greek
> 
> > 
> 
> > scientific/technical words. MANU is the preferr=
ed Glosa word. If I
> 
> > 
> 
> > can't remember MANU, but I remember the =
English word MANIPULATE and
> 
> > 
> 
> > derive the word as MANI instead,=
 I have not made a mistake. I like not
> 
> > 
> 
> > making mistakes. :-)
=
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > XAVIER: it's natural that this discussion is=
 happening on and on.
> 
> > 
> 
> > People may get astonished at the dicti=
onary (as I did) when they find
> 
> > 
> 
> > many translations for a cert=
ain word, some just differing on the final
> 
> > 
> 
> > vowel! This way t=
he morphology of the language may look chaotic. Of
> 
> > 
> 
> > course th=
is may be due to the early Glosa textbooks. Anyway, the
> 
> > 
> 
> > prob=
lem remains.
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > REAKTI: When one realizes that =
Glosa words are derived from varying
> 
> > 
> 
> > words from varying lang=
uages, one would expect the ends of the Glosa
> 
> > 
> 
> > words to vary =
too.
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > XAVIER: In my viewpoint are three optio=
ns:
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 1. Since the final vowel is not importan=
t, and it is only there to
> 
> > 
> 
> > ease pronunciation, so let's give=
 a certain final vowel to all words.
> 
> > 
> 
> > -E is the characteristi=
c vowel of the main Latin declension (the 3rd)
> 
> > 
> 
> > and it is the=
 characteristic ending of verbs, at their infinitive -re.
> 
> > 
> 
> > I =
am really testing this -E option with a reformed Latino Sine
> 
> > 
> 
> >=
 Flexione.
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > REAKTI: I would argue that there =
is no characteristic vowel in the
> 
> > 
> 
> > original Latin. Latin spea=
kers themselves added the E to make
> 
> > 
> 
> > pronunciation easy. This=
 E is often unstressed in the original Latin,
> 
> > 
> 
> > is missing in =
such forms as ESSE and FERRE and FAC and DIC. I agree
> 
> > 
> 
> > that a=
dding the E in man-made language plans is a good idea.
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
>=
 > 
> 
> > * * *
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > Different international lan=
guage plans have used different means of
> 
> > 
> 
> > obtaining their bas=
e vocabulary. LSF did this directly from Latin,
> 
> > 
> 
> > Esperanto fr=
om a mix of modern Romance and Germanic words, Glosa from
> 
> > 
> 
> > mo=
dern scientific/technical terms, Lojban from languages all over the
> 
> > =

> 
> > world. There is nothing wrong with any of these plans, they are sim=
ply
> 
> > 
> 
> > different.
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > Good luck with=
 Glota! Maybe it will finally be the right one. You'll
> 
> > 
> 
> > find =
there is no shortage of critics out there. :-) But the real trick
> 
> > 
>=
 
> > is to get people to USE the language. Most people who criticize these=

> 
> > 
> 
> > languages rarely read or write more than a few sentences.
>=
 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > When I started studying the international lan=
guage problem, I wanted
> 
> > 
> 
> > to test the languages by using them.=
 (I still use LSF a little; see
> 
> > 
> 
> > groups.yahoo.com/group/latin=
osineflexione.) Glosa was the one I
> 
> > 
> 
> > learned the fastest. I a=
lso feel it most freely expresses ideas.
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > Eve=
n more important is support. No international language will be
> 
> > 
> 
>=
 > successful without a group of people actively promoting it. Esperanto
> =

> > 
> 
> > has the most support, therefore it is the one most people hear=
 about.
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > Saluta,
> 
> > 
> 
> > _ _
> 
> > 
>=
 
> > /.
> 
> > 
> 
> > /\   Garx
> 
> > 
> 
> > #
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
=
> 
> >     
> 
> >      
> 
> > 
> 
> >     
> 
> >     
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> =

> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> > 
> 
> >    		 	   		  
> 
> > 
> 
> > [Non-tex=
t portions of this message have been removed]
> 
> >
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
>     
=
>      
> 
>     
>     
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
> 
>    		 	   		  
> 
> [Non-text =
portions of this message have been removed]
>



