---
authorName: Gary Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary Miller &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBR2JLaUxxTkU0aE00SHY2OThUM2NRLThtTHFzem82Z3BoK0ZFdFdFUGhYYVZ6WlZnd0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2292
msgSnippet: More weird and lonesome than the journey of an Amazonian explorer is the
  ride of one through a Texas pear flat. ... With dismal monotony and startling variety
nextInTime: 2293
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1335646371'
prevInTime: 2291
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Zqz4fE-bZNcgISYBpca6XrddmeJvsOIhU_vVgUcHJdYOov0zuDib8o-6rl64bLUlfbHbhjNPkMXQHttcDPAaKccp6Yd6nvfp
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Cisco Kid 22
topicId: 2292
userId: 486875979
---

	More weird and lonesome than the journey of an Amazonian explorer is
the ride of one through a Texas pear flat.
> Ma xeno e solo de viagia de detekti-pe topo fluvi Amazon es u viagia per equs dia kaktus plano de stato Texas.

With dismal monotony and startling variety the uncanny and multiform
shapes of the cacti lift their twisted trunks, and fat, bristly hands
to encumber the way.
> Per tristi non-interese e mira difere, plu no-norma e poli-difere forma de plu kaktus monstra plu ge-strepto basi, e leva plu lati, spina "manu" tende sti no-facili u via.

The demon plant, appearing to live without soil or rain, seems to
taunt the parched traveller with its lush grey greenness.
> U diaboli fito; qi feno du bio minus tera e pluvi, feno ridi per densi polio-kloro qalita anti u dipso viagia-pe.


It warps itself a thousand times about what look to be open and
inviting paths, only to lure the rider into blind and impassable
spine-defended "bottoms of the bag," leaving him to retreat, if he
can, with the points of the compass whirling in his head.
> Id tropi se klo kron peri plu ra; qi feno es aperi e klari via, simpli tende sti; un equs-pe veni a plu no-klari e no-trans sto-lo; ge-alexi per plu spina, tem lase; an nece re-veni-- si posi-- kausa plu direkti de nord-me du giro in kefa.

