---
authorName: Localhosed
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Localhosed &lt;localhosed@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBRnkzMEV6TUE0N0ZmYjE4S1FmWGFSeEdzUnkrVFRFWVg9aU95X3NaTEx1NWN2dSsxUUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2300
msgSnippet: Ja, u-la pa es mi u logi de u semani. U verba-bibli ne dice semani de
  verba. Vice, id relate mu. Anti-co u verba-bibli place mi. Nu mi translati u puta-me
  ludi
nextInTime: 2301
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1336368005'
prevInTime: 2299
prevInTopic: 0
profile: localhosed
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Qu33K1BHzEgGD5T-egLP_Z6lLtWSngpp59MmWG5njyOmjsN7LtzBwHxRPT0FF2GY9oKumscfwqvjDuaxsutdDhzCUe_2Iwq5
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 're : Tera&#92;geo'
topicId: 2300
userId: 455016325
---

Ja, u-la pa es mi u logi de u semani. U verba-bibli ne dice semani de
verba. Vice, id relate mu. Anti-co u verba-bibli place mi.
Nu mi translati u puta-me ludi qi es gene nomina "Xenonauts".
Mi tende; face u brevi lista qi habe plu frase e plu verba de Glosa.
Ci, plu pe pote dice de mu.

Tera/geo -- It was important for me, for translating these games
particularly. Because I saw again today that mineral is 'geo-ma', I changed
my interpretation of geo. In these types of games, there are uses of all
three related words - planet (planeta), ground, soil, terrain (tera),
and  "the whole present/local planet that we speak of" (geo). I think "gaia
(also gaia in english)" covers the meaning of  earth related to it's
ecology as a whole, and maybe other mystical uses related to the greek god
called gaia.

Tera/geo -- De mi, id pa gravi ; tende translati plu-ci ludi. Ka, itera
nu-di mi pa vide; "mineral" es "geo-ma"....

But then, why isn't it planeta-ma, or something more general to apply to
asteroids et cetera, though I realize that glosa may keep some word roots
for the purpose of helping people recognize similarly used greek and latin
roots that are already present in many languages.
...

Qo tu puta de "extraterrestrial" ? Nu-di, mi pa elekti "vive-ra ab geo". De
"extraterrestrial", mi tenta face u frase qi habe homo longi.

 I might have used Glosa today for another of its intended purposes, to
help people realize roots of many words (english, romance, etc), The word
was 'abnormal', it looks like 'away from normal',  something like 'ab
norma' in Glosa. But I don't know how accurate that is, I didn't check, I
was just thinking of it.

Saluta,
Buno ko lito (I tried to translate my first name, but according to online
sources, it could mean anything including "rocky hill"(darren), "the great
(darin)", or "from a town in france named lingonberry/cowberry/airelle
(darrell)" !  ( lingonberry - Vaccinium vitis-idaea )
U civita in France qi es gene nomina koku de bovi !
It's interesting to me that Mega Glosa lists raspberry as idaeus.
Raspberry's scientific name is Rubus idaeus.
wikipedia says : "The genus name Vaccinium is derived from
the Latin word vaccinium ('of or relating to cows', from vacca "cow") "
So, Vaccinium vitis-idaea  has something to do with cows (qi vora koku),
vines (plu-ci qi kresce) and Mount Ida in Crete (u loka in topo koku
kresce) .
I am still reading documents from this group about usage of gene, gene ge-,
et cetera.


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


