---
authorName: Localhosed
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Localhosed &lt;localhosed@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBRnkzMEV4MVc1d2QxZmJKYU14SEhKN1JuczM9Q1NDRTltdGV5ODNFRVR2Ty1NZGNPd0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2303
msgSnippet: I don t know what to say other than that you or other people could make
  suggestions and start discussion of that and maybe keep a document of the proposals
  in
nextInTime: 2304
nextInTopic: 2310
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1336430675'
prevInTime: 2302
prevInTopic: 2302
profile: localhosed
replyTo: LIST
senderId: D1AMSCd5Q81Y287kDI7NDpN4fQSMuwgrQe7CPGfnmDPWfY4fTl6qgGQoap1y5_nMPXCLBfPWskb0pHv19FbHSzk_-TwgeucO
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: GID'
topicId: 2302
userId: 455016325
---

I don't know what to say other than that you or other people could make
suggestions and start discussion of that and maybe keep a document of the
proposals in this lists's files area, since I don't know who, if anyone,
has authority over the GID.

I'll try to link some of the words you gave with meanings that may be able
to include these words, at least english meanings. As to keeping other
language dictionaries more or less meaning-matched with any additions to
english Centra, that is another important thing to consider, but as for me,
I don't know languages other than english and parts of a few constructed
languages.

I'm using Centra only for my comparison here since it seems to be more
consistent than Mega GID overall. It's easier to manage because it is
shorter also and seems to have no or few self contradictions, which I also
could call excessive ambiguity. I have no great confidence in my criticism
at the moment because I can tell that the people who worked on Centra knew
more about dictionary making and language than I do right now. So I make
tentative suggestions. Though Mega has some conveniences and more greek
roots, so it has its uses. I don't know if Mega has a different ratio of
greek to latin roots, after the questionable or old words are not taken
into account (x marked words) . I don't know what the maybe optimal balance
of greek to latin roots could be given the composition of target speakers.

I just give these for discussion since I haven't thought about them for
long lengths of time.

physician :
add to definition of medika-pe -  ( doctor (medical )  )

absence :
maybe add to definition of defekti - defect; fault; deficiency; flaw; lack;
be lacking ; be missing

activity :
maybe add to definition of akti - act; do; behave; accomplish; action;
active; commit; deed; does (form of to do); doing (participle of to do);
perform; performance; take action; transact

dictator :
similar to arki - chief; official (adj); authority; govern; rule
(authority)

riches :
similar to pluto - rich; resources; wealth

thirsty :
in Centra, fami  - hunger; hungry
and
dipso - thirst
so, dipso might include thirsty also. Unless other sources contradict for a
good reason, or anyone else has thoughts.

simplicity :
similar to elementa - element; elementary; primary; simple

simplify :
phrase can be made from elementa... maybe face elementa (to make simple) ,
for passive "simplified" maybe - gene elementa (becomes simple, becomes
elementary)  .  I don't know Glosa well, I may not be using all accepted
rules.

desirable :
maybe use mega valu, or some other phrase with valu -

I haven't read davies and garner's book. So I'm willing to think the words
below might be common, but they don't seem common to me :
amusing, disciple, guardian, oversee, cristal (is it supposed to be
crystal, or cristal?)
But I may as well consider them anyway. Oversee may be mostly synonymous
with 'manage' and similar words in GID.

Wikipedia says that a greek root of crystal has to do with ice, I have no
idea about latin roots of it. I would like to see this word in the GID,
even if only in Mega GID, depending on how often used it could be, and if
there are other ways to say it using Centra that aren't too long. If not,
Bill Nye might disapprove of it!

18 step guide lists grandmother, etc. I haven't found grandparent, but
grandmother or grandfather are more accurate. Grandparent might be
parenta-parenta, or something less funny.

helper :
I wouldn't add it to auxi, because helper in english can mean help, a
helping person, a helping tool, a helping method, it's a very general and
dissolved word, and to me auxi allows for phrases or compound words that
include all of those meanings. But the GId could possibly have standard
meanings for some helping things, but I hesistate to choose because of the
many helping things that there are possible to name. It may be that GID
makers deliberately did not include some words in order to keep dictionary
size relatively small, which may make it easier to sort through the
dictionary if you are new to the language...

However, as to why Centra GID doesn't include things like ordinal numbers
(other than first) or names of numbers like fourteen, or numerals
themselves under definitions of numbers like eight, I don't know. Maybe it
was a low priority , or maybe they want to include those separately in the
18 step guide. I admit that I have read the shortened HTML 18 step guide
less than the dictionary. But maybe a guide outside the dictionary is
necessary to teach the language well.

Some words (like activity) as used in english can be difficult for me to
sort out. When english words have uses in adjective, noun, adverb or verb
form, a decision needs to be made of which form to use,  or mix with others
based on popularity or some other reason. As to what reason is the best, I
chose before common use "intuitively" and by checking thesaurus and
dictionaries.
But if a word (like activity) has been so dissolved into multiple meanings,
this had made me want to avoid adopting such words into a dictionary at
all. A famous example might be english 'set' . I like what Centra GID did
with this word.
 If the intention of Glosa is to be a simple language, a larger dictionary
may not be more useful, but I can see the usefulness of maybe adding more
translations to existing definitions if the definitions of the english
words aren't very loaded with varying meanings.

But the Glosa as it became seems to allow more ambiguous seeming
definitions at a first glance, when the parts of speech were partly made
undefined and instead were made part of syntax. So that makes it even more
diffcult for me to try to adopt new words into the dictionary. It is
because I don't have explicit information about what the maker's thoughts
were in making it as it is now, and no explicit information about the
methods they used.

Please let me know what anyone thinks about this.
Pusi piro tu u faba de kafa. Po-co, bibe id.
Saluta, Vale,
Ultima Koku de Bovi


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


