---
authorName: Localhosed
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Localhosed &lt;localhosed@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBRnkzMEV3YTIxN18wekxxbjFqSFpKUStSVURia1U5Yllwa2o9d2JuRlViMC1WMXdKQUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2305
msgSnippet: 'forgot to mention : eastern, western etc : I guess it s possible to use
  de est, de ocide , et cetera,  but I think the definition of these direction words'
nextInTime: 2306
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1336435263'
prevInTime: 2304
prevInTopic: 0
profile: localhosed
replyTo: LIST
senderId: g1QzcDz2-KGGL2yHaGE5BlqDlnYA40QFRcwzLOTPW8H_Ss3JUZQgfJNA9wImfOTLDQFH2pONurI-B9RmziLEEFfm1s5eKPXu
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'ma de : Re: GID'
topicId: 2305
userId: 455016325
---

forgot to mention :
eastern, western etc :
I guess it's possible to use "de est, de ocide", et cetera,  but I think
the definition of these direction words (est, ocide, sud, nord) might be
able to include "eastern, easterly, or maybe even eastward, but that may
benefit most from a separate phrase since it indicates movement. Ka, what
is the difference in meaning (and not cultural usage) between 'eastern
border, easterly border, east border' ?  But i don't know how languages
other than english handle simlar words so I don't know if there would be
much conflict there. I don't think it would necessarily help to add
eastward and similar words, since  to me "est" covers that pretty well and
it can be used in phrases to help clarify related meanings. I guess.

I am confused a little because I see now that Centra includes this :

nord - north

sud - south; southern

est - east

ocide - west; western; occidental

After I wrote the following paragraph I noticed that Mega GID includes some
more of these kind of words. I was going to suggest that
austra/boreo/orienta could be used to refer to global area, while the short
english-similar ones in Centra can refer to more local area, but there's
the problem with ueste conflicting with "u est [..]" and being very similar
to est.
 On that topic, I wonder why ad is so close to ab, seems like it might be
confusing (especially in dangerous and noisy situations), though the
consonants are somewhat different, I wonder if a slightly altered word
would help in place of either of them, if possible, without losing
recognizability of the root. I think it has been discussed?

 I like Mega GID's alternative word "orienta" for east, but I guess that it
wasn't included with Centra because it might be confused with the other
english definition of orient, meaning "to move, adjust". I also don't know
how the roots of orient and occident are treated in other languages. But I
like orient, it is informative for purposes of learning roots. I don't know
how confusing it could be if east and west included 'oriental and
occidental' meanings. Most of the time east and west would be used relative
to shorter distance area than the whole earth, so maybe mention of oriental
and occidental could be only in the Mega GID? But since glosa is meant to
be an IAL, the ideas might be used often enough that people would want them
in Centra.

Saluta,
Vale,
Ultima Koku de Bovi


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


