---
authorName: Xavier Abadia
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Xavier Abadia&quot; &lt;xabadiar@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENBRnkzMEV4MVc1d2QxZmJKYU14SEhKN1JuczM9Q1NDRTltdGV5ODNFRVR2Ty1NZGNPd0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGpvZHF0ZittM3UyQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2310
msgSnippet: Hi localhosed, thanks for your suggestions. You are right, many of those
  common words I mentioned are not so common. And *cristal was an error. Anyway, I
nextInTime: 2311
nextInTopic: 2316
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1336569583'
prevInTime: 2308
prevInTopic: 2303
profile: xabadiar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 70556m7p6LL3j2mU3jRR_ejYnxpg1ZWLDY3dt4ffPsHEoOxuj-lvBrUmPH79DmIEl_FHV6GjGZGNALJdC2-asKfdc0Q-ydIqSt8L
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '3'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: GID'
topicId: 2302
userId: 472762895
---

Hi localhosed, thanks for your suggestions.
You are right, many of those "c=
ommon" words I mentioned are not so common. And *cristal was an error.

Any=
way, I think lexicographers need to use both a frequency approach (like Dav=
is & Gardner's frequency list of 5000 words) and a theoretical
approach (li=
ke the "Longman Defining Vocabulary" of 2200 essential words:
http://longma=
nusahome.com/dictionaries/images/vocab_definitions.pdf ). With the latter w=
e get some essential words which may be not very frequent.
Greetings.
Xavi.=


--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Localhosed <localhosed@...> wrote:
>
> =
I don't know what to say other than that you or other people could make
> s=
uggestions and start discussion of that and maybe keep a document of the
> =
proposals in this lists's files area, since I don't know who, if anyone,
> =
has authority over the GID.
> 
> I'll try to link some of the words you gav=
e with meanings that may be able
> to include these words, at least english=
 meanings. As to keeping other
> language dictionaries more or less meaning=
-matched with any additions to
> english Centra, that is another important =
thing to consider, but as for me,
> I don't know languages other than engli=
sh and parts of a few constructed
> languages.
> 
> I'm using Centra only f=
or my comparison here since it seems to be more
> consistent than Mega GID =
overall. It's easier to manage because it is
> shorter also and seems to ha=
ve no or few self contradictions, which I also
> could call excessive ambig=
uity. I have no great confidence in my criticism
> at the moment because I =
can tell that the people who worked on Centra knew
> more about dictionary =
making and language than I do right now. So I make
> tentative suggestions.=
 Though Mega has some conveniences and more greek
> roots, so it has its us=
es. I don't know if Mega has a different ratio of
> greek to latin roots, a=
fter the questionable or old words are not taken
> into account (x marked w=
ords) . I don't know what the maybe optimal balance
> of greek to latin roo=
ts could be given the composition of target speakers.
> 
> I just give thes=
e for discussion since I haven't thought about them for
> long lengths of t=
ime.
> 
> physician :
> add to definition of medika-pe -  ( doctor (medical=
 )  )
> 
> absence :
> maybe add to definition of defekti - defect; fault; =
deficiency; flaw; lack;
> be lacking ; be missing
> 
> activity :
> maybe a=
dd to definition of akti - act; do; behave; accomplish; action;
> active; c=
ommit; deed; does (form of to do); doing (participle of to do);
> perform; =
performance; take action; transact
> 
> dictator :
> similar to arki - chie=
f; official (adj); authority; govern; rule
> (authority)
> 
> riches :
> si=
milar to pluto - rich; resources; wealth
> 
> thirsty :
> in Centra, fami  =
- hunger; hungry
> and
> dipso - thirst
> so, dipso might include thirsty a=
lso. Unless other sources contradict for a
> good reason, or anyone else ha=
s thoughts.
> 
> simplicity :
> similar to elementa - element; elementary; =
primary; simple
> 
> simplify :
> phrase can be made from elementa... maybe=
 face elementa (to make simple) ,
> for passive "simplified" maybe - gene e=
lementa (becomes simple, becomes
> elementary)  .  I don't know Glosa well,=
 I may not be using all accepted
> rules.
> 
> desirable :
> maybe use mega=
 valu, or some other phrase with valu -
> 
> I haven't read davies and garn=
er's book. So I'm willing to think the words
> below might be common, but t=
hey don't seem common to me :
> amusing, disciple, guardian, oversee, crist=
al (is it supposed to be
> crystal, or cristal?)
> But I may as well consid=
er them anyway. Oversee may be mostly synonymous
> with 'manage' and simila=
r words in GID.
> 
> Wikipedia says that a greek root of crystal has to do =
with ice, I have no
> idea about latin roots of it. I would like to see thi=
s word in the GID,
> even if only in Mega GID, depending on how often used =
it could be, and if
> there are other ways to say it using Centra that aren=
't too long. If not,
> Bill Nye might disapprove of it!
> 
> 18 step guide =
lists grandmother, etc. I haven't found grandparent, but
> grandmother or g=
randfather are more accurate. Grandparent might be
> parenta-parenta, or so=
mething less funny.
> 
> helper :
> I wouldn't add it to auxi, because help=
er in english can mean help, a
> helping person, a helping tool, a helping =
method, it's a very general and
> dissolved word, and to me auxi allows for=
 phrases or compound words that
> include all of those meanings. But the GI=
d could possibly have standard
> meanings for some helping things, but I he=
sistate to choose because of the
> many helping things that there are possi=
ble to name. It may be that GID
> makers deliberately did not include some =
words in order to keep dictionary
> size relatively small, which may make i=
t easier to sort through the
> dictionary if you are new to the language...=

> 
> However, as to why Centra GID doesn't include things like ordinal num=
bers
> (other than first) or names of numbers like fourteen, or numerals
> =
themselves under definitions of numbers like eight, I don't know. Maybe it
=
> was a low priority , or maybe they want to include those separately in th=
e
> 18 step guide. I admit that I have read the shortened HTML 18 step guid=
e
> less than the dictionary. But maybe a guide outside the dictionary is
>=
 necessary to teach the language well.
> 
> Some words (like activity) as u=
sed in english can be difficult for me to
> sort out. When english words ha=
ve uses in adjective, noun, adverb or verb
> form, a decision needs to be m=
ade of which form to use,  or mix with others
> based on popularity or some=
 other reason. As to what reason is the best, I
> chose before common use "=
intuitively" and by checking thesaurus and
> dictionaries.
> But if a word =
(like activity) has been so dissolved into multiple meanings,
> this had ma=
de me want to avoid adopting such words into a dictionary at
> all. A famou=
s example might be english 'set' . I like what Centra GID did
> with this w=
ord.
>  If the intention of Glosa is to be a simple language, a larger dict=
ionary
> may not be more useful, but I can see the usefulness of maybe addi=
ng more
> translations to existing definitions if the definitions of the en=
glish
> words aren't very loaded with varying meanings.
> 
> But the Glosa =
as it became seems to allow more ambiguous seeming
> definitions at a first=
 glance, when the parts of speech were partly made
> undefined and instead =
were made part of syntax. So that makes it even more
> diffcult for me to t=
ry to adopt new words into the dictionary. It is
> because I don't have exp=
licit information about what the maker's thoughts
> were in making it as it=
 is now, and no explicit information about the
> methods they used.
> 
> Pl=
ease let me know what anyone thinks about this.
> Pusi piro tu u faba de ka=
fa. Po-co, bibe id.
> Saluta, Vale,
> Ultima Koku de Bovi
> 
> 
> [Non-text=
 portions of this message have been removed]
>



