---
authorName: Xavier Abadia
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Xavier Abadia&quot; &lt;xabadiar@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENBRnkzMEV5azhOUTVLUT1TUzJ4WkJLbnkwS2VqWUFXbS1fZmtSd3VaZ2V4aFd6Y3BjUUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGpvbnRjZStxOWtpQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2318
msgSnippet: Dear localhosed. Your first question is quite easy (What is the theory
  or method of the Longman dictionary?) Lexicographers can use a limited number of
nextInTime: 2319
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1336899790'
prevInTime: 2316
prevInTopic: 2316
profile: xabadiar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Zx2tnn4vpJh3ZFPqhJjiHSkPIcRz5BDd6TRfQNnbuWlTk4zEdOTEorXFQ314JI-ntzLi3bfXFr8VjlB93cDyErJCvbC-OnRXOTMi
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '3'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: GID'
topicId: 2302
userId: 472762895
---

Dear localhosed.

Your first question is quite easy (What is the theory or =
method of the Longman
dictionary?)
Lexicographers can use a limited number =
of essential words to express all the
definitions of a diccionary. So they =
sometimes do. Logman managed to use only
2200, and they published the list =
online.

The second question is a bit harder. (Which words have you found t=
hat would be
important for adding to the GID?) I would need some hours to e=
xamine this.
On the other hand, I have given in a previous message a list o=
f basic words which are among the 5000 most frequently-used words in Americ=
an English:

absence, acceptable, activity, addition, adolescent, aircraft,=
 announcement,
beauty, commander, creation, cristal, discourage, eastern, e=
mployment,
establishment, expertise, formation, killer, lover, married, mul=
tiple, oversee,
physician, proposition, reflection, rhetoric, seventh, shut=
tle, singer, sixth,
stranger, thinking.

Greetings.

--- In glosalist@yahoo=
groups.com, Localhosed <localhosed@...> wrote:
>
> xavi wrote :
> >"Hi loca=
lhosed, thanks for your suggestions.
> >You are right, many of those "commo=
n" words I mentioned are not so common.
> And
> >*cristal was an error.
> 
=
> >Anyway, I think lexicographers need to use both a frequency approach (li=
ke
> Davis
> >& Gardner's frequency list of 5000 words) and a theoretical
>=
 >approach (like the "Longman Defining Vocabulary" of 2200 essential words:=

> >http://longmanusahome.com/dictionaries/images/vocab_definitions.pdf ).
=
> With the
> >latter we get some essential words which may be not very freq=
uent.
> >Greetings.
> >Xavi."
> 
> What  is the theory or method of the Lon=
gman dictionary?
> Which words have you found that would be important for a=
dding to the GID?
> I tend to think of Mega GID as a separate reference for=
 special purposes.
>  A short phrase could be possible for aircraft. I need=
 to think about it.
> 
> For Centra, I would consider many synonyms and nea=
r synonyms first before
> adding a word.
> I am still learning Glosa, so I =
don't have a very good guess about what
> ideas are hard to express clearly=
 or in less than 4 words (in the form of :
> substantive  substantive de su=
bstantive - which can be much longer than a
> single word if used often eno=
ugh.
> I looked a little in the Longman defining dictionary PDF that you li=
nked,
> and  it may be that there are some useful things that could be adde=
d from
> it,
> but I recognize lots of words from it that aren't necessary.=
 These come in
> pairs in english, that Glosa is supposed to treat as a sin=
gle word. Glosa
> is supposed to use syntax to make meaning clearer. For ex=
ample  govern with
> goverment, mess/messy, imagination/imaginary. I can re=
cognize most words
> from the pdf file you linked in Centra. So far I think=
 Centra is a
> particularly well organized group of ideas.
> Some ideas see=
m 'ambiguous' more than others, but I haven't been too
> terribly confused =
with Glosa so far. Short sentences help. Semicolons help.
> Context helps. =
So does familiarity with Glosa.
> 
> I notice ideas like peti/kade/vola. Pe=
ti includes fall and fly. Vola does
> not include fall, but includes fly. K=
ade only includes fall, but no other
> meanings from the other two. But I t=
hink the reason for overlap may be
> because the Glosa meanings need to fit=
 with so many other languages also.
> Other languages may handle "fall" dif=
ferently. So I think that it could be
> potentially destructive to add too =
many words to Centra, because if the
> meanings are too specific, they coul=
d conflict with the general nature of
> Glosa words. So that : the words wo=
uld no longer be very general, and the
> syntax that is supposed to handle =
creating specific meaning from general
> meanings could be disrupted.
> 
> =
De "crystal"... info de ge-libe origi nu expliki :
> http://www.etymonline.=
com/index.php?term=3Dcrystal
> 
> Coincidentally it lists cristal as the ol=
d english and old french
> spellings. But, we are interested in pseudo (ge-=
muta) greek and latin
> roots, and Mega GID already has some probably from =
these roots - kristal,
> kristali
> This probably matches with the use in t=
he english word "cryogenics" .
> (after a fashion, not meaning crystal here=
, but instead - frozen)
> Mi pote face u frase ko Glosa; de id.
>  "kristal=
i minerali / kristali geo-ma / krista minerali / krista geo-ma /
> geli min=
erali / geli geo-ma / geli lito / geli petro " Plu-ci habe ..
> historical =
accuracy (maybe?),  semi-OK 'intuitive' meaning accuracy but not
> good sci=
entific accuracy. I like geli petro among those choices.
> Mi amo 'geli pet=
ro' inter plu-la ge-elekti verba.
> 
> So I want to think some more on it. =
 What do you think  about crystal (or
> anyone)?
> 
> Nu, mi menta habe MEG=
A fatiga.
> 
> Saluta, Vale.  (verba 'mega' es kali; mi doxo.)
> 
> 
> [Non=
-text portions of this message have been removed]
>



