---
authorName: Localhosed
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Localhosed &lt;localhosed@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBRnkzMEV4YkNNRnFjV19uZXBuSDdfc3d0ZFo0SHpHSjhtTHpNRFlEMXEzbjg3ODUzQUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2343
msgSnippet: 'Neo video de Labirinto de Gema Tekno ki voka e ge-translati New video
  of Gemcraft Labyrinth with voice and translation nexu :'
nextInTime: 2344
nextInTopic: 2352
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1338503914'
prevInTime: 2342
prevInTopic: 0
profile: localhosed
replyTo: LIST
senderId: NPOiFqndsTEI1Y-PseKQF2FppJtLwqzODelYMRH7tRCvpIqfMV_yxTtGiQ8jqrUo6oB899Bp3qYqu4-sCFatYRt8eZuBsBD-
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Neo video de &quot;Labirinto de Gema Tekno&quot;, ki voka e ge-translati
topicId: 2343
userId: 455016325
---

Neo video de "Labirinto de Gema Tekno" ki voka e ge-translati
New video of "Gemcraft Labyrinth" with voice and translation

nexu :  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7fYFWaJ-9pE
link :

Ci es u info de "youtube" :
Here is the information from "youtube" :

-------------------------------------
A video of the very good tower defense game 'Gemcraft Labyrinth', available
on Armorgames or Kongregate. The premium version is $5, as of this writing.

Glosa : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glosa
Official Glosa site :   http://www.glosa.org/en/index.html
.. is a language that might remind you of latin, greek, or E.S. posthumus's
latin-like language. But Glosa isn't dog-latin, and doesn't have artistic
aims. But it can be used for fun too. It's based on the ideas of Lancelot
Hogben, Ronald Clark, Wendy Ashby, and many others including the current
maintainers of its website and discussion groups.

Non-mistakes : lots (mega)

Mistakes I made : stress on a few words was in strange places, stress on
some words was not very strong. I forgot to say some "ke" for semicolon.( I
don't know much about this, other than that "ke" is not standard, I don't
know any alternatives yet. I slurred some trilled "r's". I gave a few
somewhat vague meanings when I spoke without using notes. I sometimes said
'insekta' instead of insekti'. My "t's" were sometimes soft like 'glottal
stop + "d" ', a consequence of speaking english. And "mi pa habe premi
programa" was supposed to be "mi habe (u) premi programa." I hacked/spliced
together "bate mu" from two different audio recordings, to make the stress
better and to replace an error. I read 90% of this from a translation I
wrote into Glosa, since I don't know many Glosa words from memory yet.
I have been occasionally learning and practicing for about 2 months.
Before I made the video, I had not spoken more than a few short sentences
in Glosa.

Tools used :
Bandicam, Virtualdub , Avidemux, Audacity (edit audio, normalize volume)
------------------------------

Qe ali doxo alo puta ? Gratia!


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


