---
authorName: localhosed
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;localhosed&quot; &lt;localhosed@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENBR2JLaUxvOG8xQ1prMUM0bkNTWXRxeWpqS0ZCU0RqdDJoT1FkQ1FPRGg9X0JMWms3Z0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGpxYXVwZitsc2pkQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2345
msgSnippet: I could be wrong with some of this stuff. I try my best. I am glad you
  mentioned se and auto. Thanks. As for your sentence Gary, I guess.. Un an-bovi pa
nextInTime: 2346
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1338572399'
prevInTime: 2344
prevInTopic: 2344
profile: localhosed
replyTo: LIST
senderId: GQwZFcy2crdTbome_RBZ23xj_T83luz9d_fPgRLEnrJIc2FP82rBPWHI76NESXG79YqmR4Q61F9PMzG10dCXg9Zb3Xc15DwBuwo
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: A bi arti-pe'
topicId: 2344
userId: 455016325
---

I could be wrong with some of this stuff. I try my best. I am glad you ment=
ioned se and auto. Thanks.

As for your sentence Gary, I guess.. 

 "Un an-=
bovi pa detekti u somni ju-leo e pa fora *SE* a-kron morta per auto kerati.=
"

sio semani..

The bull detected the sleeping young lion and punctured it=
self to(until) death with (by means of) its own horn. 

Why 'auto' modifies=
 the first an-bovi, I only guess (pertaining to Glosa usage), because the f=
irst an-bovi is the subject of the sentence.


I have probably misused 'se'=
 and 'auto' before. They were on my 'todo list'. I checked the 18 step guid=
e. There were examples in step 13. Including "Mi qestio se" (I ask myself /=
 I wonder)

Ja, de u origi frase ex Ian : "Un an-bovi pa detekti u somni ju=
-leo e pa fora an a-kron morta per auto kerati. "

Yeah, in the original se=
ntence by Ian : ...

posi semani : The bull detected the sleeping young lio=
n and punctured him to(until) death with its horn. (by means of.. its own..=
 horn).

Mi pre-nu puta; an-bovi ne fora se : Ka-co, mi ne puta u-ci 'an' (=
de ..leo e pa fora an..) semani "himself".

I already knew/know that bull(s=
) don't puncture themselves : Therefore, I don't think this 'an' (in ..leo =
e pa fora an..) means "himself".

But according to the dictionary, I guess =
'an' here could mean 'himself'. Since 'an' includes the definition 'himself=
' . I don't know, is there a reason that it includes 'himself', instead of =
only limiting reflexive to 'se' and 'something sort of like genitive' to 'a=
uto' ?
 But instead, the sentence could be made into two sentences.

I gues=
sed that Ian meant 'him' for 'an' instead of 'himself' for 'an', but I thin=
k I had to read until 'kerati' in order to get an idea of what the bull was=
 doing, since I can imagine a bull with some kind of pointy device strapped=
 to itself, but really, more confusion could come from more complex scenari=
os that aren't often in fables. I guess?

Plus praxi ko mi tende translati =
:
More practice with(along with) my intended translations:

0.Un an-bovi pa=
 detekti u somni ju-leo. U an-bovi fora ju-leo per auto kerati. 

The bull =
detected the sleeping young lion. (The) bull punctured (the) lion with (by =
means of) its (own) horn.

1.Per auto kerati, u an-bovi pa fora u ju-leo.

=
With (By means of) its (own) horn, the bull punctured the young lion.
-----=
---------------
ero/xeno 1.a. U an-bovi pa detekti u ju-leo. U an-bovi pa f=
ora an. (if 'an' couldn't mean 'himself', this would work)
----------------=
---
xeno 1.b. An-bovi pa detekti ju-leo. An-bovi pa fora se per auto kerati=
. (the bull punctured itself with its own horn....I don't know how it's pos=
sible, but that is what it says, I think.)
-------------------
2.Tende fora=
 u ju-leo, u an-bovi uti auto kerati. U an-bovi sucede.

In order to punctu=
re the young lion, the bull uses (utilizes) its (own) horn. The bull succee=
ds.
-------------------
3.An-bovi fora ju-leo per an-bovi kerati.

Bull pun=
ctures young lion with (by means of) bull's horn.
-------------------
3.xvi=
i. An-bovi fora ju-leo per an-bovi auto kerati.
Bull punctures young lion w=
ith (by means of) its own horn.

At this point I am confused, maybe without=
 good reason. Are the previous two sentences invalid Glosa?
Is a glosa sent=
ence supposed to have only one adverb-like word after the verblike word? Or=
 in these two, are the parts 'per an-bovi kerati' valid adverbial phrases? =
Maybe long adverbial-like phrases tend to confuse things, and maybe that's =
why it would help to limit their length? I don't know...Mi qestio se....ad =
infiniti? (X elekti 'no-fini')

posi : 3.xxi. Pa-di u mega an-bovi pa fora =
u mikro ju-leo rapidi; per auto kerati.
 Yesterday a large bull punctured a=
 tiny young lion quickly by means of its own horn.

Or maybe 'auto' here is=
 not necessary with previous knowledge of : An-bovi uti auto kerati tende f=
ora ali-ra.

And so , E so, Ka-co : 

Pa-di u mega an-bovi pa fora u mikro =
ju-leo rapidi; per kerati.
Panto ju-leo gene anastasia. 

Hmm! I didn't kno=
w that word had those roots. It changes my understanding of the female name=
 Anastasia. It must be biblical.

14,232. Mo an-bovi fu fora u hetero an-bo=
vi per auto kerati.

One bull will puncture another bull by means of its ow=
n horn.


14,233. Per auto kerati, mo an-bovi fora u hetero an-bovi.

et ce=
tera, et cetera, et cetera.

23,800. Tende fora u hetero an-bovi, mo an-bov=
i uti auto kerati.

23,910. Plu an-bovi qi pa gene fatiga de lukta; pa kine=
 a u kinema. 

Qe tu puta de qo? Qe tu doxo? Tu puta qo? Tu puta de qo?
Que=
stion : you think of what? Question : your opinion? You think what?  You th=
ink of what?

Id pa es qestio praxi plus.
It was inquisitive practice also.=
 

Mi habe/es mega fatiga. Saluta/vale


--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, =
Gary Miller <gmillernd@...> wrote:
>
> Ian e Localhosed-
> 
> Mi qestio se,=
 qe u mero de konfusi es kausa u translati:
> 
> "Un an-bovi pa detekti u s=
omni ju-leo e pa fora *SE* a-kron morta per
> auto kerati."?
> 
> "No mi ne=
 fu akti,
> Mi verba es exakti."
> 
> U poesi-pe!
> 
> Saluta,
> _ _
> /.
>=
 /\ =A0 Gary
> #
>


