---
authorName: localhosed
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;localhosed&quot; &lt;localhosed@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENBR2JLaUxySDRwTDNvNEplRm9LV3pteXptdGNNNlJGU1lNQ0pEdTV4Vk41NGtNRXBKQUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGpxaGVibSsxamdzQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2349
msgSnippet: I read your explanation of se/auto. It makes good sense to me. I found
  the other two files concerning se/auto in the files section. Both are from way back
  in
nextInTime: 2350
nextInTopic: 2353
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1338784950'
prevInTime: 2348
prevInTopic: 2348
profile: localhosed
replyTo: LIST
senderId: OS4RT1M-3Md-BAyUmTy1OfHudAP6iKokl0oeVgniLkyiBisSyeGEqOsbQdUW2ENxA7st4j4eeak2xDRRda2LFjkEA9JOXBXqxMk
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: SE-AUTO'
topicId: 2348
userId: 455016325
---

I read your explanation of se/auto. It makes good sense to me. I found the =
other two files concerning se/auto in the files section. Both are from way =
back in 2004, but still useful. I am still reading Manuel's. I think the st=
uff you wrote today would make a good update to your file, or as part of a =
combination of both.

Mega gratia. I was hoping that someone who also speak=
s Glosa would acknowledge my speaking, so I am happy to hear from you about=
 it.

I meant to put a note that explained that 'non-schematic' pronunciati=
on is probably acceptable to Wendy and Ron's plan for the language, since t=
hey included examples with something like british accents. I don't want to =
discourage people who haven't heard the language before, if they hear it, a=
nd it seems difficult..For the moment I'd like to improve my 'schematic' pr=
onunciation because it is the 'basi' on which to compare other accents. 

I=
 am using 'super memo', 'u puta-me programa de' training for knowledge whic=
h uses Pimsleur-esque methods and a variety of newer ones. I think. I will =
use your notes here as part of learning during the next week.


--- In glos=
alist@yahoogroups.com, Gary Miller <gmillernd@...> wrote:
>
> Localhosed-
>=
 
> SE is a pronoun.
> -> SE es u vice-verba.
> 
> In Ian's story
> -> In s=
tori de Ian
> 
> U BOVI PA CIDE SE
> 
> would mean the bull killed himself.=

> 
> This would change the moral of the story.
> -> U-ci fu muta u stori s=
ko.
> 
> U BOVI PA CIDE AN
> 
> would mean the bull killed the lion (not hi=
mself).
> 
> (I was wondering if the bull killed himself to avoid being eat=
en by the lion.)
> -> (Mi pa qestio se, qe u bovi pa cide se tende evita ge=
ne ge-vora per u leo.)
> 
> SE always refers to the subject of the sentence=
.
> -> SE panto-kron tropi se a sti-verba de frase.
> 
> AUTO has two uses.=

> -> AUTO habe bi uti.
> 
> 1)
> 
> It can be an adjective referring to th=
e subject:
> -> Id posi es u deskribe-verba; qi tropi se a sti-verba:
> 
> =
AN DUCE AUTO VAGONA A KRATI-DO =3D
> He drove his (own) car to the city hal=
l.
> 
> AN DUCE AN VAGONA A KRATI-DO =3D
> He drove his (someone else's) ca=
r to the city hall.
> 
> 2)
> 
> AUTO also can be added for emphasis:
> -> =
Pe plus pote dona AUTO tende dona ma forti:
> 
> U REGI AUTO FU DUCE UN ARM=
E =3D
> The king himself will lead the army.
> 
> Some languages use SE onl=
y in the third person, some use it for first
> and second person as well. G=
losa does not have a rule regarding this:
> 
> MI TROPI A FENESTRA =3D
> MI=
 TROPI MI A FENESTRA =3D
> MI TROPI SE A FENESTRA.
> 
>  * * *
> 
> Mi audi=
 tu video de puta-me sporta. U dice-soni es boni!
> 
> Saluta,
> _ _
> /.
>=
 /\ =A0 Gary
> #
>



