---
authorName: localhosed
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;localhosed&quot; &lt;localhosed@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENBRnkzMEV4YkNNRnFjV19uZXBuSDdfc3d0ZFo0SHpHSjhtTHpNRFlEMXEzbjg3ODUzQUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGpxajJyMCtmanAzQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2352
msgSnippet: 'Mi puta a se : Uti ko voka.. vice ki voka.. . Id es tipo ero. Mi reakti
  a se : Boni. Mi fu akti. Mi reakti a se itera : Boni. Qo basi; tu dice a se? '
nextInTime: 2353
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1338838688'
prevInTime: 2351
prevInTopic: 2343
profile: localhosed
replyTo: LIST
senderId: MzF_g05hvAjHPBfGq0sD-jdC0YSiE0jCrcoebfREf0gbWLi0SQMGWIbMGcycZXiW5d2UGgSOHVaz1rmEtr5UV8d9TP7tPkziJ3w
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Neo video de &quot;Labirinto de Gema Tekno&quot;, ki voka e ge-translati'
topicId: 2343
userId: 455016325
---

Mi puta a se : "Uti 'ko voka..' vice 'ki voka..'. Id es tipo ero."
Mi reakt=
i a se : "Boni. Mi fu akti."
Mi reakti a se itera : "Boni. Qo basi; tu dice=
 a se?"
Mi reakti itera : "Tende doci e disci."

I think to myself : "Use '=
ko voka..' instead of 'ki voka..'. It is a 'typo'.
I respond to myself : Go=
od. I'll do it.
I respond to myself again : Good. Why do you speak to yours=
elf?
I respond again : In order to teach and learn. 

--- In glosalist@yaho=
ogroups.com, Localhosed <localhosed@...> wrote:
>
> Neo video de "Labirinto=
 de Gema Tekno" ki voka e ge-translati
> New video of "Gemcraft Labyrinth" =
with voice and translation
> 
> nexu :  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3D7f=
YFWaJ-9pE
> link :
> 
> Ci es u info de "youtube" :
> Here is the informati=
on from "youtube" :
> 
> -------------------------------------
> A video of=
 the very good tower defense game 'Gemcraft Labyrinth', available
> on Armo=
rgames or Kongregate. The premium version is $5, as of this writing.
> 
> G=
losa : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glosa
> Official Glosa site :   http://=
www.glosa.org/en/index.html
> .. is a language that might remind you of lat=
in, greek, or E.S. posthumus's
> latin-like language. But Glosa isn't dog-l=
atin, and doesn't have artistic
> aims. But it can be used for fun too. It'=
s based on the ideas of Lancelot
> Hogben, Ronald Clark, Wendy Ashby, and m=
any others including the current
> maintainers of its website and discussio=
n groups.
> 
> Non-mistakes : lots (mega)
> 
> Mistakes I made : stress on =
a few words was in strange places, stress on
> some words was not very stro=
ng. I forgot to say some "ke" for semicolon.( I
> don't know much about thi=
s, other than that "ke" is not standard, I don't
> know any alternatives ye=
t. I slurred some trilled "r's". I gave a few
> somewhat vague meanings whe=
n I spoke without using notes. I sometimes said
> 'insekta' instead of inse=
kti'. My "t's" were sometimes soft like 'glottal
> stop + "d" ', a conseque=
nce of speaking english. And "mi pa habe premi
> programa" was supposed to =
be "mi habe (u) premi programa." I hacked/spliced
> together "bate mu" from=
 two different audio recordings, to make the stress
> better and to replace=
 an error. I read 90% of this from a translation I
> wrote into Glosa, sinc=
e I don't know many Glosa words from memory yet.
> I have been occasionally=
 learning and practicing for about 2 months.
> Before I made the video, I h=
ad not spoken more than a few short sentences
> in Glosa.
> 
> Tools used :=

> Bandicam, Virtualdub , Avidemux, Audacity (edit audio, normalize volume)=

> ------------------------------
> 
> Qe ali doxo alo puta ? Gratia!
> 
> =

> [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
>



