---
authorName: localhosed
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;localhosed&quot; &lt;localhosed@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PENBR2JLaUxwNzNGQ0tjMWdqRkFBRzNGNmU2ZG1aPVNhMlJqczJ3WGFESEN2OHpKUU9XZ0BtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGp2N2JiaCtzMWtpQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2373
msgSnippet: Hi, Gary. Saluta, Gary. I understand what you wrote about tolerance. Mi
  logi tu grafo de tolera. Maybe you could guess that I agree. Posi tu pa pote divina;
  Mi
nextInTime: 2374
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1343697073'
prevInTime: 2372
prevInTopic: 2354
profile: localhosed
replyTo: LIST
senderId: XTIzRj_xOFRH6QEVn5JrWVPR49boJ3XoHd2yg0XNximUZEK3HfevLOwciUaP0Jnwd-Gr-UawMV5QZNKORZZb0bCVv9Q26UynL7U
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: An ne pote memo- An merka'
topicId: 2354
userId: 455016325
---

Hi, Gary.
Saluta, Gary.

I understand what you wrote about tolerance.
Mi lo=
gi tu grafo de tolera.

Maybe you could guess that I agree.
Posi tu pa pote=
 divina; Mi akorda.

A long time has passed since I last used Glosa.
Mega t=
em fu pa ge-linqi po mi ultima kron de Glosa uti.

My mind was exhausted.
M=
i menta pa ge-spende.

So maybe my speech skill lessens.
So posi mi tekno d=
e dice wei.

No-klu-co..
Kura.. Anti plu persona, Plu Hipopotamus habe mega=
 miso!
(ridi)
Regardless of that, (ne-kognato)
Beware.. against people, hip=
popotamuses are very hostile!
(laughter) 


--- In glosalist@...=
m, Gary Miller <gmillernd@...> wrote:
>
> Localhosed-
> 
> >Mega gratia. I =
was hoping that someone who also speaks Glosa would acknowledge my speaking=
, so I am happy to hear from you about it.
> 
> >I meant to put a note that=
 explained that 'non-schematic' pronunciation is probably acceptable to Wen=
dy and Ron's plan for the language, since they included examples with somet=
hing like british accents. I don't want to discourage people who haven't he=
ard the language before, if they hear it, and it seems difficult..For the m=
oment I'd like to improve my 'schematic' pronunciation because it is the 'b=
asi' on which to compare other accents.
> 
> This is exactly the right atti=
tude. TOLERANCE. If you understand what
> was said, the language is success=
ful. Don't say, "But you're
> pronunciation isn't perfect."
> -> U-ci es un=
 exakti korekti este. TOLERA. Si pe logi u ra; ali-pe
> dice, u lingua habe=
 sucede. Ne sti dice: "Anti-co tu dice-soni ne es
> perfekti."
> 
> >This i=
s from the 18 step guide, in step 12.
> >"An ne pa pote memo plu verba seqe=
-co an pa merka u verba-bibli."
> 
> Except for the punctuation, this sente=
nce is correct.
> -> Excepti plu inter-verba sema, u frase habe korekti.
> =

> TOLERANCE. Speakers of Western European languages seem to have a
> diffe=
rent system of reflexive pronouns than do most other languages
> (including=
 the original Latin they came from). Therefore I would say
> simply expect =
some differences here.
> -> TOLERA. Plu dice-pe de plu uest-Europa lingua f=
eno habe u difere
> sistema de plu re-flexi vice-verba, de maxi poli hetero=
 lingua (klude
> un origi lingua Latino; ex qi mu pa veni). Kausa-co mi dic=
e; pe simpli
> debi cepti plu difere de u-ci.
> 
> I hate talking grammar. =
But if you really want to-
> -> Mi este odio de dice de gramatika. Anti-co,=
 si tu veri volu dice-
> 
> Logically, since SE refers back to the subject =
of the sentence, SE can
> never be the subject of the sentence or even of a=
 phrase. In the
> phrase starting with ANTI-CO, AN is the subject, taking t=
he verb MERKA
> and the object U VERBA-BIBLI. It is simply context that mak=
es AN the
> same person in both phrases. It is only logical that a person w=
ho
> needs help remembering words would need a dictionary. When you think
>=
 of it, if I say HE, does the word refer to President Obama, Prince
> Charl=
es, or some bum sleeping in the street? How does anyone know
> exactly what=
 the word HE is referring to? Since context- that is
> simple common sense,=
 not grammar- actually determines who or what a
> pronoun refers to
> 
> GR=
AMMAR REALLY DOESN'T HELP MUCH WITH ANYTHING!
> 
> Saluta,
> _ _
> /.
> /\ =
=A0 Gary
> #
>


