---
authorName: Localhosed
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Localhosed &lt;localhosed@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBRnkzMEV5WU80TndjRnB1bWJNYTdBRktwTXpUczlqdVdhLUtGb2F6VFRkRXo1bytEQUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2375
msgSnippet: 'Munda nova (World news) DEINO MAL-ACIDE DE RAILA #TERRIBLE RAIL ACCIDENT
  Proxi Nellore, Andhra Pradesh, India.. Tem di tri ze, meno septi, anua bi kilo ze
  mo'
nextInTime: 2376
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1343961304'
prevInTime: 2374
prevInTopic: 0
profile: localhosed
replyTo: LIST
senderId: GdFLJ-U7sPMrBbpGjra2NnellM0zuLqRnl0RLlt06mf2uTjKc-4NsZdDsjwea9VnEZKCP58YOvqwv9NU2LGuZAj3j8jcbUJR
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Munda nova
topicId: 2375
userId: 455016325
---

Munda nova (World news)

DEINO MAL-ACIDE DE RAILA
#TERRIBLE RAIL ACCIDENT

=
Proxi Nellore, Andhra Pradesh, India..
Tem di tri ze, meno septi, anua bi k=
ilo ze mo bi (30/07/2012), u ge-nomina
trena "Tamil Nadu Express" pa ge-pir=
o.
#Near Nellore, Andhra Pradesh, India..
#On the thirtieth of july, two-th=
ousand-twelve, a train named 'tamil nadu
express' became ignited.

U trena =
pa ge-piro tem ze-tetra bi-bi (04:22 / 4:22am). U trena kli-vagona
de nomin=
a "S-11" pa gene destru ex piro tem bi ze minuta.
Ne mei de tri bi (32) per=
sona pa gene morta. Ne mei de bi septi persona
gene vulne. Po plu-ci bi ze =
minuta,
u salva-grega pa sto; destru ex piro de plu hetero vagona.
#The tra=
in became ignited at four twenty-two. The train's sleeper/bed-car
of the na=
me "S-11" was destroyed by fire in twenty minutes.
#Not less than thirty-tw=
o people died. Not less than twenty-seven people
were injured. After these =
twenty minutes,
#a rescue-team stopped (the) destruction by fire of other (=
train) cars.

Plu polica-pe dura cerka tende u piro sti, e/alo plu liabili =
persona.
#Police continue to search for the cause of the fire, and/or respo=
nsible
people.

Tende ma info, lekto : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nellore=
_train_fire
#For more information , read :

---
Plus nova :
#Additional new=
s :
---

PLU SPACI SKIENCE-PE DETEKTI; NEO LUNA DE PLANETA 'PLUTO'
Di mo mo=
, meno septi, anua bi kilo ze mo bi (11/07/2012)
#ASTRONOMERS (SPACE SCIENT=
ISTS)(;) FIND NEW MOON OF PLANET PLUTO
#day 11, month 7, year two-thousand-=
twelve

U-ci natura satelita de planeta Pluto es u luna penta qi pa ge-dete=
kti.
Id habe nomina 'S/2012 (134340) 1', plus ko u vulga nomina 'P5'.
#This=
 natural satellite of the planet Pluto is the fifth moon that was
found.
#I=
t has the name 'S/2012 (134340) 1', also with the common name 'P5'.

Skienc=
e-pe logi; id diametri es inter 10 kilometra ad 25 kilometra.
Id pa ge-dete=
kti kausa spaci skience-pe pa stude; nona fotografi-fa.
#Scientists know th=
at its diameter is between 10 kilometers to 25
kilometers.
#It was found be=
cause astronomers studied nine groups of photographs
(photograph-groups/set=
s).

Plu-ci fotografi pa ge-face ex 'Hubble' spaci teleskope (Hubble Space
=
Telescope).
Skience-pe logi; u luna pa ge-forma ex un impakti de Pluto. Po-=
co, ge-geli
nitrogen
e 'methane' (inter plu homo elementa) gene gasi. Proxi=
-holo ge-geli aqa pa
resta.
#These photographs were made by (the) 'Hubble S=
pace Telescope'.
#Scientists know that the moon was formed by an impact of =
Pluto. After
that, frozen nitrogen
#and methane (among other elements) beca=
me gas. Near-entirely frozen water
remained.

Vide plu fotografi de id, e p=
lus info, ci :
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/S/2012_P_1
#View photographs of=
 it and additional information, here

Orbita info:
#Orbital information:
Me=
so radia de orbita : 42,000 km =B1 2,000 km (26,000 mi =B1 1,200 mi)  (Mean=

orbit-radius)
No-regula : ~0 (Proxi 0)
 (Orbital Eccentricity)
Inter-tem :=
 20.2 =B1 0.1 di
(Orbital Period)

Translati pro England-lingua; ne inklude=
 singu verba.
(Translation into english is not entirely literal)
(And neith=
er was that!)
Plus, ne u-la pa es!


[Non-text portions of this message hav=
e been removed]


