---
authorName: Gary Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary Miller &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBR2JLaUxwTStHTTBwK0JZUlhqN2tvVDd3cHMyWGRTdWFqcUp2al9VdVUyNWkrd0c4QUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2406
msgSnippet: Besides his marksmanship the Kid had another attribute for which he admired
  himself greatly. ... He was /muy caballero/, as the Mexicans express it, where the
nextInTime: 2407
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1348359692'
prevInTime: 2405
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: ElUi8aP9NExJFGEHGWb2wBVBL0YnO7EM3W_957OCApfXoaKSHcKzDgE0VbMzNRSsPJwv-usja2uI2nw8z2bTB82a2RDz6hli
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Cisco Kid 38
topicId: 2406
userId: 486875979
---

	Besides his marksmanship the Kid had another attribute for which he
admired himself greatly.
> Para an pafili tekno, u Juve-an pa habe un hetero idio-ra; de qi an mega latri se.

He was /muy caballero/, as the Mexicans express it, where the ladies
were concerned.
> An pa es "u gentili equs-an," iso plu Mexico-pe dice, tem kura de plu gina.

	For them he had always gentle words and consideration.
> Pro mu, an panto-kron dona plu gentili verba e puta.

He could not have spoken a harsh word to a woman.
> An ne pa dice u severi verba a gina.

He might ruthlessly slay their husbands and brothers, but he could not
have laid the weight of a finger in anger upon a woman.
> An posi cide mu sponsa e fratri.  Anto-co an ne posi presa per ponde de mono digi anti gina.

Wherefore many of that interesting division of humanity who had come
under the spell of his politeness declared their disbelief in the
stories circulated about Mr. Kid.
> Kausa-co poli gina; qi pa gene influ per an gentili, deklara auto no-kredi de plu histori ge-publika de sr. Juve-an.

One shouldn't believe everything one heard, they said.
> Mu dice; pe ne debi kredi panto-ra; pe audi.

When confronted by their indignant men folk with proof of the
/caballero's/ deeds of infamy, they said maybe he had been driven to
it, and that he knew how to treat a lady, anyhow.
> Kron plu koleri andro sti sura mu per testi-ma de plu kako akti de Juve-an, mu dice; an posi gene nece de akti id, plus-co an ski gentili a plu gina.

