---
authorName: Gary Miller
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Gary Miller &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PENBR2JLaUxyZWdTMEFIa2hMVmpvUTMxc0ZnZG1NNHJxWlNCc2NKKy1VM20ya2ZtampwUUBtYWlsLmdtYWlsLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2416
msgSnippet: 'Sandridge lighted the camp lantern and read the letter. ... /Dear One/:
  He has come. ... Hardly had you ridden away when he came out of the pear. ... When
  he'
nextInTime: 2417
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1355719751'
prevInTime: 2415
prevInTopic: 0
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: CdVdiqFo-Skct9rnvFcSYlcgdeBW6K-uF5FolzGF28YSs_toLKUG03RpBewqJJONTXIiAqOpITOGApqmJRIAAN9uzKDEq5a4
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Cisco Kid 44
topicId: 2416
userId: 486875979
---

	Sandridge lighted the camp lantern and read the letter.
> Sandridge sti u foto in lampa, e lekto u grama.

These were its words:
> Plu-ci es plu verba de id:

--------------------

/Dear One/: He has come.
> Karo-pe:  An pa veni.

Hardly had you ridden away when he came out of the pear.
> U mikro tem po tu pa viagia ab ci, an veni ex kaktus-lo.

When he first talked he said he would stay three days or more.
> Kron an proto-kron dice, an dice; an fu resta ci tri alo ma poli di.

Then as it grew later he was like a wolf or a fox, and walked about
without rest, looking and listening.
> Po-co kron ma proxi a skoto, an es homo u lupus alo vulpes, e peri-gresi minus somni, tem skope e audi.

Soon he said he must leave before daylight when it is dark and stillest.
> Po mikro tem, an dice; an fu nece kine ab ci pre di-foto, tem es skoto e maxi paci.

And then he seemed to suspect that I be not true to him.
> Po-co an feno doxo; mi posi es no-fide de an.

He looked at me so strange that I am frightened.
> An tali no-more skope mi; mi este fobo.

I swear to him that I love him, his own Tonia.
> Mi dice u jura; mi filo an, an Tonia.

Last of all he said I must prove to him I am true.
> An ultima dice; mi debi monstra ad an; mi es fide.

He thinks that even now men are waiting to kill him as he rides from my house.
> An doxo; klu nu-tem plu andro du atende de cide an, kron an kine ab mi eko-lo.

To escape he says he will dress in my clothes, my red skirt and the
blue waist I wear and the brown mantilla over the head, and thus ride
away.
> Tende fugi-- an dice-- an fu habe epi se mi vesti, mi rubi tunika ko ciano supra-ve e bruno kefa-te, e per plu-ci fu fugi.

But before that he says that I must put on his clothes, his
/pantalones/ and /camisa/ and hat, and ride away on his horse from the
/jacal/ as far as the big road beyond the crossing and back again.
> Anti-co pre u-la-- an dice-- mi nece habe an vesti epi se, poda-ve e supra-ve e kefa-ve, e sti viagia per an equs ab eko-do ad u-la mega via ultra trans-lo, e re-veni.

This before he goes, so he can tell if I am true and if men are hidden
to shoot him.
> U-ci pre an kine, per u-ci an fu pote decide; qe mi es fide, e qe plu andro kripti se, tende fusili an.

It is a terrible thing.
> Es u deino ra.

An hour before daybreak this is to be.
> Mono horo pre di proto, u-ci fu es.

Come, my dear one, and kill this man and take me for your Tonia.
> Sti veni, mi karo-pe, e cide u-ci andro, e cepti mi iso tu Tonia.

Do not try to take hold of him alive, but kill him quickly.
> Ne sti tenta de rapi vive an.  Anti-co tako cide an.

Knowing all, you should do that.
> Tem ski panto-ra, tu fu debi akti u-ci.

You must come long before the time and hide yourself in the little
shed near the /jacal/ where the wagon and saddles are kept.
> Tu fu nece veni pre u-ci kron, e kripti se in mikro instrumenta-do proxi ad eko-do; in qi na habe u vagona e plu equs-ru.

It is dark in there.
> Es skoto in la.

He will wear my red skirt and blue waist and brown mantilla.
> An fu habe epi se mi rubi tunika e ciano supra-ve e bruno kefa-te.

I send you a hundred kisses.
> Mi bali a tu hekto oskula.

Come surely and shoot quickly and straight.
> Sura sti veni, e tako e rekti fusili.

Thine Own Tonia.
> Tu Tonia.

--------------------

