---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDAzMTIyMDAyMTExOS4wMjEwNTgyMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 241
msgSnippet: Plu Karo Amika, Tem mi viagia dia un Inter-reti, mi pa detekti u-ci mero
  de valu-abili info. Id dona refere ad u metodi de gene sko de lingua, u Pimsleur
nextInTime: 242
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1071850812'
prevInTime: 240
prevInTopic: 0
profile: bliminus_107_ssaass
replyTo: LIST
senderId: hrLNjdbyf9qFD1izRMhk8mTLv9TK1f32wt-QkoCivMYxPDSgUO0c-7sMGPUYz-EQITNay3OE_wgc45tSeos1oPLXzPUwgvJD-dFsOap_3aaElO2MMg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Pimsleur Metodi
topicId: 241
userId: 147970330
---

Plu Karo Amika,
    Tem mi viagia dia un Inter-reti, mi pa detekti u-ci mero de valu-abili 
info.

    Id dona refere ad u metodi de gene sko de lingua, u Pimsleur Metodi.

    U-ci fo dina mode de dona sko de lingua habe nuli bibli, e uti solo soni.

    Mi pa kopi u ma mega artikla ex u Reti, e fu bali id a plu-pe; qi posta 
qestio, sed, ci, mi inklude u pusi itema -- u-ci lista habe nuli facili pro 
ge-adhesi itema
   ____

"Numerous studies have revealed that in every country, native-speakers use 
only about 2,500 distinct words and phrases on a daily basis. Dr. Pimsleur 
spent his lifetime studying these language building blocks. With the 
Pimsleur approach, it's not how many words you know, but rather, which 
words you can use. By aiming each lesson at teaching you to use those 2500 
words, the Pimsleur approach teaches you to speak the most German in the 
least amount of time."
   ___

`` The Pimsleur approach is so effective because it traces how people 
developed language. Before written history, we had oral history. Most 
people, even kings, couldn't write or read in ancient times. Some people 
can't even read today. Most language learning systems fail to acknowledge 
that writing only exists to represent the words we speak. So you should ask 
yourself, "Why should I learn to read German if I can't even speak it?"

The Pimsleur German course immediately immerses you in a German 
conversation to help you grasp the syntax or structure of the German 
language. Amazingly, once you understand the syntax, that chaotic, 
"foreign" sound so common to language learning disappears instantly. You'll 
start to recognize words and phrases. The Pimsleur approach will help to 
change your perception within your first 30 minutes! ``
   ___

     E so, posi na debi sio pluso kocentra na eforti ko u doci de Glosa in 
u dona sko per solo soni.

     Qod dona sensi a mi pa es u mentio de 'sintaxi.'
     Uti u-ci metodi, mu habe solo 2500 verbi, e dona sko de sintaxi per oti.

     Mi ne ski, alo mi uti Glosa iso mi puta tem uti England-lingua, alo, 
ka mi praxi ko Glosa, mi menta nu kausa mi te puta in England-lingua iso mi 
sio akti tem uti Glosa.

   ===
Dear Friends,
     While wandering through the Internet, I found this valuable piece of 
information.
     It refers to a method of learning language, the Pimsleur Method.
     This very powerful way of teaching language has no book, and uses only 
sound.
     I copied the larger article from the Net, and will send it to people 
who ask for it, but here I include a small item - this list having no 
facility for attachments.
   ___
   ___

     And so, possibly we should also concentrate our efforts, with the 
teaching of Glosa, into instruction by sound only.
     What made sense to me was the mention of syntax.
     Using this method, they have only 2500 words, and teach about syntax 
by ear.
     I do not know: either I use Glosa as I think while using English, or, 
because of my practice with Glosa, my mind now causes me to think in 
English as I would do while using Glosa.
   ===
    Place nota: mi puta de Glosa e forma plu Glosa frasa - prima; seqe, mi 
translati u Glosa in England-lingua.

...Please note: I think about Glosa, and form Glosa sentences first; then I 
translate the Glosa into English.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell

   To help with usage, I use:-
      _GLOSA 6000 - 6000 Greek and Latin Words and Roots_, 1992, Glosa
      Download (144pp) Glosa Internet Dictionary (GID): English - Glosa,
          2000, Glosalist [now updated on Marcel's website]
      Greek dictionary
      Latin Dictionary
      & common sense, inherent language ability, and the idea of Chomsky's
          "Universal Language"
      My original website is now hosted by Bill Patterson at:-
            http://www.kafejo.com/rgaskell




