---
authorName: Kim
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kim&quot; &lt;kimesperanto@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGtkbnFrZCtjNnZ2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2437
msgSnippet: Karo glosa-pe, I have just finished 18 Steps .  Below is the first of
  many questions.  I ll try to keep to one concept per thread.  Most of these involved
nextInTime: 2438
nextInTopic: 2438
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1358917069'
prevInTime: 2436
prevInTopic: 0
profile: kimglosa
replyTo: LIST
senderId: ias4vKVS4MZ_9AU7W2AnxfqEu-UCHen4_4a9FPMPUMgu6QcBAcjC07JPIEtdFeSkkolgnCLsQguDdRLV805KsIGVO7ceAr8
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: official descriptions of the Glosa language
topicId: 2437
userId: 547631289
---

Karo glosa-pe,

I have just finished "18 Steps".  Below is the first of man=
y questions.  I'll try to keep to one concept per thread.  Most of these in=
volved small obstacles to my learning -- I would very much like to improve =
the experience for future learners.  And I would be willing to spend some t=
ime towards that end. :)

I have seen (and Marcel Springer has acknowledged=
 by email) that there are many contradictions among the various Glosa learn=
ing materials on the web.  "18 Steps" (the HTML page) is "THE official desc=
ription of Glosa".  Marcel has also mentioned that additional text in vario=
us Plu Glosa Nota editions also have the status of 'official' (although I'm=
 not sure which).  These seem very clear statements, and so unless advised =
otherwise, I'll take these to be the defining docs.

I managed to read less=
-than-official docs before "18 Steps".  Also, there are many years of writi=
ngs available, exhibiting perhaps the rules of the day.  Both of these caus=
ed me much initial confusion, and I had to unlearn what I thought were rule=
s.

If any in the community feel there are other official documents I shoul=
d be aware of, please advise.  For example, are there any updates planned f=
or "18 Steps"?  It sounds like some of you are in contact with Wendy Ashby =
- does she alone make changes to the language?  Are changes ever discussed =
here and adopted?  Do new usages find themselves popular and through that h=
ave achieved an official status?

One reason this matters to me is that I w=
ant to be able to correctly understand Glosa text I read.  I'd like to know=
 when something I read contains an error.  I see that I am not alone in thi=
s - I noticed that there were many editorial corrections within "18 Steps" =
itself.  Another reason is that if I should undertake any Glosa writing pro=
jects, I would want to be using the language correctly and with good style.=
  I also recognize that some things are matters of correctness, while other=
s are matters of good vs questionable style.  I am interested in both, with=
 indications of whether a statement is a rule, or a good-style guide.

I am=
 grateful for any discussion, thoughts, concerns.  Recapping in brief:

- d=
o any other docs have the status "official description"?
- is the language =
still evolving, and how?

Gratia e Saluta!
Kim



