---
authorName: Kim
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kim&quot; &lt;kimesperanto@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGtlMHJoZytqam11QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2441
msgSnippet: Gary, Gratia.  Your answer is clear and unequivocal.  I also read Sti
  Logi - thanks very much for that. I m sorry to learn Wendy Ashby has been sick.  Also,
nextInTime: 2442
nextInTopic: 2442
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1359212912'
prevInTime: 2440
prevInTopic: 2438
profile: kimglosa
replyTo: LIST
senderId: YHHiprIOmfrC4CIh20XPOL3T_pMTVkW8wbRCtW4xsXAm2hmG7pHXpm1jEtOZcaC1GyLrGe4dCYDq9SWBIc2ylh8781Mo3Sk
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: official descriptions of the Glosa language'
topicId: 2437
userId: 547631289
---



Gary,

Gratia.  Your answer is clear and unequivocal.  I also read "Sti L=
ogi" - thanks very much for that.

I'm sorry to learn Wendy Ashby has been =
sick.  Also, Marcel Springer has mentioned she is good about answering ques=
tions by mail.



Glosa-pe,

Continuing with the search for official defini=
ng documents...  By extension of Gary's statements, any works written in or=
 translated into Glosa by Ms. Ashby would constitute authoritative examples=
 and usage.  I have already seen that the language has evolved, so I would =
imagine we would give more weight to later works than earlier, if differenc=
es were noticed among writings (speaking here of works by her and/or Ronald=
 Clark).  I see that "18 Steps" was written between 1985-1992, so this sets=
 a point of reference.

For some of her Glosa documents there is fortunatel=
y a date recorded; others such as "Un Hedo Prince" (which I just finished, =
and enjoyed very much seeing the concepts in action) do not have a date.  :=
(

Moving to a related point, if we then read the works of others, and see =
differences in word order or style that seem contrary to the creators' work=
s (also taking into account the year of writing), then we should be able to=
 confidently see them as incorrect (or in some cases, correct but not the b=
est style) -- right?

Again, as said at the start of the thread, some Glosa=
 works established the wrong rules or usage at the start of my Glosa advent=
ure.  I am seeking clarification before I go further, and for others to com=
e.

In brief then,
 - Ashby and Clark's works are the gold standard.
 - The=
ir *later* works, especially 1985 and after, are what we hold correct, when=
 differences are seen in their earlier works.
 - Their works establish the =
official usage, wherever differences are seen in *other* peoples' works.

C=
orrect? Other thoughts?

Gratia e Saluta!!
Kim



--- In glosalist@yahoogro=
ups.com, "Gary"  wrote:
>
> Kim--
> 
> Wendy Ashby is the author of 18 STEP=
S and the owner of the Glosa language.  Her work has been slow lately becau=
se of illness.  She has the sole rights to make any changes to Glosa.  I do=
n't think she has e-mail at the present time, but she is very good about an=
swering questions if you send her "snail mail."  Her address can be found a=
t www.glosa.org.
> 
> I have tried to answer some of these questions in my =
blog: glos-avanti.blogspot.com and click on "Sti Logi."
> 
> Saluta,
> _ _
=
> /.
> /\   Gary
> #
>



