---
authorName: Gary
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Gary&quot; &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDY5N0NCMzAxN0QyNzQyMjBBQ0E0OThCNEFBM0IzQkZBQGRhdmlkPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGtlNGRlaStqMmRwQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2446
msgSnippet: Kim and David-- I think you two have it right.  Most of the differences
  found in older articles and books by Clark and Ashby are mainly spelling clarifications
nextInTime: 2447
nextInTopic: 2447
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1359329554'
prevInTime: 2445
prevInTopic: 2445
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: iiTaL_njh03P2AdFBR_IgtFKKbMKLSUssNCFi6-oioDIkHnVIjmM86yavBJmKzJtf3LAuYoFRV7lg8zn_4slwd3krA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '3'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: official descriptions of the Glosa language'
topicId: 2437
userId: 486875979
---

Kim and David--

I think you two have it right.  Most of the differences fo=
und in older articles and books by Clark and Ashby are mainly spelling clar=
ifications and changes to the vocabulary lists of Glosa 1000/Central Glosa.=
  The Glosa Internet Dictionary (GID) is the most up-to-date.

Saluta,
_ _
=
/.
/\   Gary
#

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "David"  wrote:
>
> 
>   =
Hello Kim,
> 
>   Concerning the three assumpions you refer to - I'm not to=
o sure about the "gold standard".   Ron and Wendy had taken on the task of =
simplifying and improving Prof. Hogben's Interglosa and it probably proved =
to be a bigger challenge than anticipated and I imagine that resources (tim=
e, money etc),  were limited.   A number of dictionaries were produced in w=
hich there were mistakes and alterations that consequently caused confusion=
 for those learning the language.   I think that the inet dictionary brough=
t about the necessary clarity - and, after all -the dictionary is of fundam=
ental importance  - maybe critically more so in a language such as Glosa th=
at has no conventional grammar and the rules are simple and easy to underst=
and and one has to rely on words laid out in a certain way to bring about c=
omprehension.    I have copies of Plu Glosa Nota dating back to the 90's an=
d I have to say that I was always able to read Wendy Ashby's contributions =
much easier than Ron Clark's - (the latter of which I often had to give up =
on, one reason being that Ron had the habit of using words that were not in=
 any of the dictionaries).    I have to say that I am critical of one aspec=
t of Glosa as I think it is unneccesary to use words derived from  both Gre=
ek and Latin  - I can't see why Glosa needs to have e.g. "sola" and "heli" =
"aqa" and "hidro" - increases the demand on memory.   In conclusion I think=
 the approach to learning/writing Glosa is simply to use the words from the=
 inet dictionary put down in such a way as to make good sense (not being a =
linguist myself and not having the kind of mind that makes learning a langu=
age easy I imagine that what makes sense to an English speaker may not nece=
ssarily make sense to a German/Russian/French speaker for instance who may =
want to put the words in an alternative order).   I suppose it is true of a=
ll languages - and I know that it is of the English language - one can ofte=
n read something that is ambiguous because of the way it has been written e=
ven though it may appear to be grammatically correct.
> 
>      Regards, Da=
vid jp
> 
> 
>   Davidjp,
> 
>   Gratia de tu responde, and for the mention=
 of Marcel's excellent dictionaries. I had been assuming they have an offic=
ial approval attached to them.
> 
>   Although you didn't specifically comm=
ent on my working assumptions, I imagine you would have mentioned any conce=
rns you had with them.
> 
>   Even though there are a few minor confusing l=
anguage usages that I'll be asking about, for now I am quite content to lea=
rn and use Glosa at its current definition. It *is* a joy to learn. Coming =
from Esperanto, it is so refreshing not to have to parse through a word lik=
e rugxigita (rugx-ig-i-ta) =3D having been caused to be red =3D having been=
 reddened.
> 
>   Glosa-pe,
> 
>   If anyone else has feedback to my 3 assu=
mptions just below, or the earliest questions, please do comment.
> 
>   Sa=
luta,
>   Kim
> 
>   --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "David" wrote:
>   >=

>   > Kim,
>   > 
>   > The problem for Glosa as I see it is that a) Unfor=
tunately Wendy, who is the "authority" for the language is not active (I ha=
ve been in contact with her for years although not recently but I am aware =
of her health issues) and - obviously - the loss of Ron Clarke was a great =
blow to her and for the progress of the language: b) Consequently the langu=
age has sort of come to a stand-still and until such time as its future can=
 be organised in some way or another it will remain in limbo. This is a gre=
at shame as Glosa has so much potential and is a joy to learn. In conclusio=
n I think that to follow the basic rules as origninally set down and to use=
 the inet dictionaries as produced by Marcel Springer are the best tools fo=
r learning the language until b) comes about and any amendments etc would b=
e univerally accepted.
>   > Regards, Davidjp 
>   > 
>   > 
>   > ----- Or=
iginal Message ----- 
>   > From: Kim 
>   > To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com =

>   > Sent: Saturday, January 26, 2013 3:08 PM
>   > Subject: [glosalist] =
Re: official descriptions of the Glosa language
>   > 
>   > 
>   > 
>   > =

>   > 
>   > Gary,
>   > 
>   > Gratia. Your answer is clear and unequivoc=
al. I also read "Sti Logi" - thanks very much for that.
>   > 
>   > I'm so=
rry to learn Wendy Ashby has been sick. Also, Marcel Springer has mentioned=
 she is good about answering questions by mail.
>   > 
>   > Glosa-pe,
>   =
> 
>   > Continuing with the search for official defining documents... By e=
xtension of Gary's statements, any works written in or translated into Glos=
a by Ms. Ashby would constitute authoritative examples and usage. I have al=
ready seen that the language has evolved, so I would imagine we would give =
more weight to later works than earlier, if differences were noticed among =
writings (speaking here of works by her and/or Ronald Clark). I see that "1=
8 Steps" was written between 1985-1992, so this sets a point of reference.
=
>   > 
>   > For some of her Glosa documents there is fortunately a date re=
corded; others such as "Un Hedo Prince" (which I just finished, and enjoyed=
 very much seeing the concepts in action) do not have a date. :(
>   > 
>  =
 > Moving to a related point, if we then read the works of others, and see =
differences in word order or style that seem contrary to the creators' work=
s (also taking into account the year of writing), then we should be able to=
 confidently see them as incorrect (or in some cases, correct but not the b=
est style) -- right?
>   > 
>   > Again, as said at the start of the thread=
, some Glosa works established the wrong rules or usage at the start of my =
Glosa adventure. I am seeking clarification before I go further, and for ot=
hers to come.
>   > 
>   > In brief then,
>   > - Ashby and Clark's works a=
re the gold standard.
>   > - Their *later* works, especially 1985 and afte=
r, are what we hold correct, when differences are seen in their earlier wor=
ks.
>   > - Their works establish the official usage, wherever differences =
are seen in *other* peoples' works.
>   > 
>   > Correct? Other thoughts?
>=
   > 
>   > Gratia e Saluta!!
>   > Kim
>   > 
>   > --- In glosalist@yahoo=
groups.com, "Gary" wrote:
>   > >
>   > > Kim--
>   > > 
>   > > Wendy Ashb=
y is the author of 18 STEPS and the owner of the Glosa language. Her work h=
as been slow lately because of illness. She has the sole rights to make any=
 changes to Glosa. I don't think she has e-mail at the present time, but sh=
e is very good about answering questions if you send her "snail mail." Her =
address can be found at www.glosa.org.
>   > > 
>   > > I have tried to ans=
wer some of these questions in my blog: glos-avanti.blogspot.com and click =
on "Sti Logi."
>   > > 
>   > > Saluta,
>   > > _ _
>   > > /.
>   > > /\ G=
ary
>   > > #
>   > >
>   > 
>   > 
>   > 
>   > 
>   > 
>   > --
>   > I a=
m using the free version of SPAMfighter.
>   > SPAMfighter has removed 6140=
 of my spam emails to date.
>   > Get the free SPAMfighter here: http://www=
.spamfighter.com/len
>   > 
>   > Do you have a slow PC? Try a Free scan ht=
tp://www.spamfighter.com/SLOW-PCfighter?cid=3Dsigen
>   > 
>   > 
>   > [No=
n-text portions of this message have been removed]
>   >
> 
> 
> 
>   
> 
>=
 
> [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
>



