---
authorName: Kim
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kim&quot; &lt;kimesperanto@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDEzNTkzODkxNzIuMTQ1NC4xNDA2NjExODMzNjk2NjUuNzEyNEUzRURAd2VibWFpbC5tZXNzYWdpbmdlbmdpbmUuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGtlN2dpMis1b2FyQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2448
msgSnippet: 'Karo Tom, I can respond to your question about obtaining the 18 steps
  book.  I had recently asked this of Marcel Springer.  Here are my question and his
  reply:'
nextInTime: 2449
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1359431042'
prevInTime: 2447
prevInTopic: 2447
profile: kimglosa
replyTo: LIST
senderId: qoVJdCdhJYjvWItObw4AkXaQNPEOnawq36_OxbVmxw7HPLfRFZMX4IgHatU1aMdOhkDWGzl-YWfnqH2QxnzxKkefP_bDYHQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: official descriptions of the Glosa language'
topicId: 2437
userId: 547631289
---



Karo Tom,

I can respond to your question about obtaining the 18 steps bo=
ok.  I had recently asked this of Marcel Springer.  Here are my question an=
d his reply:

[Kim]
 > 1) In "18 Steps to Fluency in Euro-Glosa", you menti=
on that the
 > HTML version is not the whole book. ...  I see it is $53.00 =
on
 > Amazon.com (kind of pricey for me), ...
 
[Marcel]
I would not recomm=
end the paper version.  It is definitely not worth
$53.  All important thin=
gs are in the web version.
 
"18 Steps" are from an earlier stage of Glosa =
development, so there
are contradictions to other vocabulary lists.  So I d=
id not include
these lists into the online-18Steps and referred to the GID =
and wrote
that the online-version is not complete.
 
The online-version pro=
vides some improvements and corrections by Nick
Hempshall and other Glosa-p=
e.  These corrections are approved by Wendy
Ashby.  So the online-version i=
s somehow "better" than the original.
 
You saw, the book has exercises.  I=
n the paper version, the solutions
of these exercises are at the end of the=
 book, in the web-version they
are directly alongside of the exercises.  We=
ndy Ashby and some other
Glosa-pe do NOT like this change.  I think, it fit=
s more for reading
on a monitor.
 
The best way to buy Glosa books, is to w=
rite directly to Wendy Ashby
and put the money into the envolope.
[end Marc=
el]

Her mailing address is available on http://www.glosa.org.  But based o=
n the above, I decided to print the online version instead.

Saluta!
Kim


=
--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Tom Cook  wrote:
>
> Saluta Glosa-pe
> 
>=
 I would like to ask if there is a way we might organize at least a
> sugge=
stion committee. I feel while the language is one of the best ideas
> for a=
n interlanguage that has been put forth, I still have a few ideas
> about G=
losa in general. I like some of the other ideas that have been
> introduced=
 as well (the imperative tense for one.)  It would be great if
> we might s=
ee how some of these ideas could be tested and then shown to
> Wendy. Not a=
 governing body per se rather a suggestion box type thing.
> if nothing els=
e to start discussions.
> 
> Also I was wondering how one could get a copy =
of the 18 steps book. 
> 
> I am working on getting the Glosa dictionary in=
to a flash card type
> program. Once I get the words entered I could make i=
t available if
> anyoone would be interested.
> 
> Thanks!
> 
> Tom Cook
>
=



