---
authorName: Gary
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Gary&quot; &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGtmdjB2MStudmZoQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGtnMWhtOStkcmNlQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2453
msgSnippet: Karo Kim-- My guess is that the copyright is there because it contained
  (and then greatly expanded on) text that was already printed by the Glosa Education
nextInTime: 2454
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1361332745'
prevInTime: 2452
prevInTopic: 2452
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: B-SWeQACgyUpfswvisOCfvL2d1JznruQ40-njFEUtx6aIP-llsSKlvN0hGAODDoVBem_bbHY6y2FEo9ggwg3r7fhNw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Rules and Guidelines:  word order with &quot;u&quot;'
topicId: 2449
userId: 486875979
---

Karo Kim--

My guess is that the copyright is there because it contained (a=
nd then greatly expanded on) text that was already printed by the Glosa Edu=
cation Organisation (GEO).  Ron Clark (1914-2000) may have had a hand in th=
is text too.

Saluta,
_ _
/.
/\   Gary
#

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com,=
 "Kim" <kimesperanto@...> wrote:
>
> 
> Gary,
> 
> Thanks, I am in the proc=
ess of reading that now.
> 
> I see that Robin Gaskell authored that paper,=
 and I noticed it has the mark "=A9 Glosa Education Organisation, Richmond =
U.K., 1999" at the bottom.   Do you know - does the latter mean that Wendy =
Ashby reviewed this and gave it 'official' status?
> 
> I ask because some =
statements do not at first glance seem correct, but I'd like to research th=
em before raising them here.
> 
> Saluta!
> Kim
> 
> 
> --- In glosalist@ya=
hoogroups.com, "Gary" <gmillernd@> wrote:
> >
> > Kim--
> > 
> > A good sta=
rt is
> > 
> > http://glosa.org/en/gramm.htm
> > 
> > and look under "Synta=
x."
> > 
> > Saluta,
> > 
> > _ _
> > /.
> > /\   Gary
> > #
> > 
> > --- I=
n glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Kim" <kimesperanto@> wrote:
> > >
> > > Karo =
Glosa-pe,
> > > 
> > > I have been reading the Glosa Internet Dictionary mu=
ch lately, and have a program that can parse 'glen.txt'.  A huge thank you =
to Marcel and the other contributors for their work!  When my program (writ=
ten in Python) is sufficiently developed, I can make it available, if desir=
ed.  My initial goal is to produce an HTML version that has bold main entri=
es.  I plan to rerun it as new releases appear from Marcel.
> > > 
> > > Th=
e next question I have for you all concerns the grammar rules of Glosa.  I =
know that Wendy Ashby and Ron Clark rarely stated them.  Learning from exam=
ples, as presented in "18 Steps", is an excellent way to learn.  But afterw=
ards when I have a question about usage, it is painful to scan through lots=
 of text to discover if usage X is ever done.  So I would like to try to de=
duce what rules of the grammar there seem to be, as well as what are simply=
 guidelines, and present them to you all for review and correction.  Loosel=
y, a 'rule' is *always* followed, and a 'guideline' is *usually* followed, =
and may have to do with good style (however that is defined) more so than c=
orrectness.  (I hope not to get into prescriptionist vs descriptionist disc=
ussions. :)
> > > 
> > > For example, a rule would be:   "u" always precede=
s the noun it modifies, possibly with intervening modifiers.
> > > 
> > > 
=
> > > So, to begin:  is this a rule?
> > > 
> > >    1. When 'u' is used wi=
th a noun that also has one or more adjectives, "u" always precedes the adj=
ectives.  This applies equally to "un" and "plu".
> > > 
> > >          Cor=
rect:    un hedo prince       u mega kali religio-do
> > >          Incorre=
ct:  hedo un prince       mega u kali religio-do
> > > 
> > > I scanned "18=
 Steps" and did not find any counterexamples, but I could have missed one, =
and even absence there is not a proof.  Please send your thoughts, correcti=
ons, discussion.  For now I am trying to stay strictly with the documents p=
roduced by W.A. and R.C from 1985 onwards, i.e., the official defining docs=
 of the language.  I know outside of that there seems to be a lot of variat=
ion... 
> > > 
> > > Saluta e Gratia!
> > > Kim
> > >
> >
>



