---
authorName: Marcel Springer
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Marcel Springer &lt;marcel@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDc1MTU0ODgxMC4zNTY5NzEuMTM2MTk5NzcxNjg4My5KYXZhTWFpbC5vcGVuLXhjaGFuZ2VAY29tNC5zdHJhdG8uZGU+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2455
msgSnippet: "Karo plu Glosa-pe, Un holo bibli \u201CInterglossa\u201D ex Lancelot\
  \ Hogben, 1943 nu es epi inter-reti: www.glosa.org/en/interglossa.pdf Mega gratia\
  \ a publika-an e"
nextInTime: 2456
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1361997716'
prevInTime: 2454
prevInTopic: 0
profile: marcel_ingo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: k7dqP6f_ajpguew2UByxN0Hc5kQUTEx8cMueW_dbqmBNb3ESe-Zeb10syUV2vs34oLK9d_ghZ2nqFk7NBqwkq2u0dqsrX31D7oQnEg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Neo pdf-bibli &quot;Interglossa&quot; epi www
topicId: 2455
userId: 142192462
---


Karo plu Glosa-pe,

Un holo bibli =E2=80=9CInterglossa=E2=80=9D ex Lancelo=
t Hogben, 1943 nu es epi
inter-reti:

  www.glosa.org/en/interglossa.pdf

M=
ega gratia a publika-an e arti-an John R. Kay de an eforti e de u-ci
mega d=
ona-ra pro na!

Saluta a panto-pe - Marcel



 * * *

John pa grafo:

"... =
the auxiliary language proposed by Lancelot Hogben, Interglossa.

When I fi=
rst got hold of the Pelican book with this title I was
intrigued by the ide=
a of using internationally accepted roots as the
basis of an uninflected au=
xiliary language. Occasionally I still leaf
through it.

I own two copies o=
f this paperback and sadly they were printed during
the austerity stricture=
s of wartime publication and the quality has
let them down badly. Not only =
have the pages become detached from
their animal glued spines but the paper=
 has obviously been whitened
with a rather invasive type of bleach which me=
ans that the pages
themselves are in a process of self-destruction, falling=
 readily into
tiny flakes upon handling.

It seems that the fact that it is=
 seldom mentioned as being available
as an out-of-print book is due to the =
fact that there are few copies
still extant. I fear for those copies lodged=
 in the National Archive
as well.

Feeling that it was a pity to let an aca=
demic definitive study get
lost to posterity I have reconstructed the volum=
e by painstakingly
OCRing each page and incorporating it in a new digital f=
ormat and from
that printed and bound a sort of facsimile volume. I have ch=
ecked with
Pearsons (who have taken over Penguin Books) and they have assur=
ed me
that they have no plans to republish this book so I assume that there=

are few objections to me doing so as it would be well out of
copyright.

.=
..

PDF ..., I can't however be thoroughly confident that there are no
typo=
s in it, it really needs a good fussy sub editor to check it. If
anyone wan=
ts to print it out themselves it'll cost them a bit in paper
and ink. I can=
 supply them with a copy at cost that is =C2=A310 per copy to
cover paper, =
ink and time plus the postage (whatever that comes to
nowadays). ... If any=
one wants a hard copy, it will just take a few
days for me to turn it out.
=

Website: HTTP://www.millrind.co.uk
"

