---
authorName: Kim
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kim&quot; &lt;kimesperanto@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGtscHI5Zyt0N2JnQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGtsc21lbitlYXE4QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2463
msgSnippet: Ave Gary, Mega gratia de tu reakti.  Mi es u mini-verba-lista-pe plus.
  Saluta! Kim
nextInTime: 2464
nextInTopic: 2468
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1367465239'
prevInTime: 2462
prevInTopic: 2462
profile: kimglosa
replyTo: LIST
senderId: wvTIJ4Oc_KI3PKDtUP8UE6UAiFX7QYHoVY40yKMbtEMMOLOKkA7tIjzcCszhTLnYlb-LJBjV0koPTeReWT8TwtaDJI-k7uE
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: the use of &#39;qod&#39;'
topicId: 2461
userId: 547631289
---



Ave Gary,

Mega gratia de tu reakti.  Mi es u mini-verba-lista-pe plus.

=
Saluta!
Kim

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Gary" <gmillernd@...> wrote=
:
>
> Kim--
> 
> I think you hit it on the head.  I had actually never seen=
 an official explanation of how to use QOD, but there was a time when the G=
losa authors experimented with using vocabulary from Interlingua.  The Inte=
rlingua of Peano (Latino sine Flexione) used QUOD in this manner.
> 
> I pr=
efer the minimalist approach to International Auxiliary Languages and have =
avoided using QOD, since it is not considered "Central Glosa" (marked with =
"++" in the Glosa Internet Dictionary).  U-LA; QI would be a substitute for=
 QOD, although I usually say U RA; QI.
> 
> Saluta,
> _ _
> /.
> /\   Gary
=
> #
> 
> --- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Kim" <kimesperanto@> wrote:
> >=

> > Ave Glosa-pe!
> > 
> > I am trying to work out exactly what 'qod' mean=
s, comparing and contrasting it to 'qi'.  It is not used in the "18 Steps" =
document.  In the online dictionary, it means "what (that which)".  I found=
 2 uses among Ashby/Clark documents:
> > 
> > 1. Plus, id sio evita excesi =
specializa per face mo verba akti *qod* in Plu Palaeo Lingua gene face per =
tri alo ma. 
> > It would also steer clear of over-specialization by making=
 one word do *what* in natural languages is often [done] by three or more. =

> > 
> > (from Paraleli Textu, Wendy Ashby & Ronald Clark, =A9 GEO, 1993)
=
> > 
> > Here it is the object of the first phrase 'mo verba akti', and the=
 subject of coming verb 'gene face'.  It is sort of a relative pronoun, lik=
e 'qi', but larger than that.
> > 
> > 2. "Mi ne es tu, e ne ski; *qod* tu =
ski," reakti Huitze, ... "
> > "That I, not being you, do not know *what* y=
ou know," replied Huitze..."
> > 
> > (from Piski Hedo, Wendy Ashby & Ron C=
lark, =A9 GEO, 1994)
> > 
> > Here it is the direct object of 'mi ... ne sk=
i', and the direct object of the coming 'tu ski'.
> > 
> > So to me it seem=
s equivalent to 'u-la; qi' - that which.  Thus we could have the equivalent=
 rewritings:
> > 
> > 1a. Plus, id sio evita excesi specializa per face mo =
verba akti *u-la; qi* in Plu Palaeo Lingua gene face per tri alo ma. 
> > 
=
> > 2a. "Mi ne es tu, e ne ski *u-la; qi* tu ski," reakti Huitze, ..."
> > =

> > Is that how you all understand qod's meaning?  Other thoughts?
> > 
> =
> (Note - I realize 2a violates the rule in 18 Steps stating that 'qi' shou=
ld be omitted in this case.  please overlook so we can focus on the main po=
int.)
> > 
> > Gratia!!
> > Kim
> >
>



