---
authorName: Gary
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Gary&quot; &lt;gmillernd@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGtuMjI3OCtia2dsQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGtuNnZwbiszY2tnQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 2469
msgSnippet: Karo Xavi-- I really liked the vocabulary in the BACK of the book CENTRAL
  GLOSA, 5000 English into Glosa 1000, when it first came out.  But some problems
nextInTime: 2470
nextInTopic: 2471
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1368851063'
prevInTime: 2468
prevInTopic: 2468
profile: tweety08092002
replyTo: LIST
senderId: MHZdACufDzA-JGWEFj7uCRzYb_7_tW3GOaLGbSv4aZDnEcxFtYk5BHBZQoVHQNAqPumLT5wFMt6OxMTFMqCfO-LDMg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Central Glosa
topicId: 2461
userId: 486875979
---

Karo Xavi--

I really liked the vocabulary in the BACK of the book CENTRAL =
GLOSA, "5000 English into Glosa 1000," when it first came out.  But some pr=
oblems were always apparent to me:

1) It contains much more than 1000 Glos=
a words.

2) This vocabulary and the vocabulary of "Glosa 1000" at the FRON=
T of the book are not well coordinated.  For example, front/DOMINA and back=
/CEFA have the same meaning.

Some of these problems have been corrected in=
 the Glosa Internet Dictionary (GID).  For example, CEFA is now the preferr=
ed word.

Words marked with both ++ and + in the GID should approximate the=
 vocabulary of "5000 English into Glosa 1000."

Saluta,
_ _
/.
/\   Gary
#
=

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Xavier Abadia" <xabadiar@...> wrote:
>
=
> Hello!
> 
> The word QOD is okay according to the dictionary I'm using ("=
CENTRAL GLOSA. 5000 English into Glosa 1000 with Etymological Notes", 1993)=
 :
> 
> WHAT, THAT WHICH =3D QOD
> ... WHICH ... =3D QI
> 
> Xavi.
> 
> 
> =
--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Kim" <kimesperanto@> wrote:
> >
> > Ave =
Glosa-pe!
> > 
> > I am trying to work out exactly what 'qod' means, compar=
ing and contrasting it to 'qi'.  It is not used in the "18 Steps" document.=
  In the online dictionary, it means "what (that which)".  I found 2 uses a=
mong Ashby/Clark documents:
> > 
> > 1. Plus, id sio evita excesi specializ=
a per face mo verba akti *qod* in Plu Palaeo Lingua gene face per tri alo m=
a. 
> > It would also steer clear of over-specialization by making one word=
 do *what* in natural languages is often [done] by three or more. 
> > 
> >=
 (from Paraleli Textu, Wendy Ashby & Ronald Clark, =A9 GEO, 1993)
> > 
> > =
Here it is the object of the first phrase 'mo verba akti', and the subject =
of coming verb 'gene face'.  It is sort of a relative pronoun, like 'qi', b=
ut larger than that.
> > 
> > 2. "Mi ne es tu, e ne ski; *qod* tu ski," rea=
kti Huitze, ... "
> > "That I, not being you, do not know *what* you know,"=
 replied Huitze..."
> > 
> > (from Piski Hedo, Wendy Ashby & Ron Clark, =A9=
 GEO, 1994)
> > 
> > Here it is the direct object of 'mi ... ne ski', and t=
he direct object of the coming 'tu ski'.
> > 
> > So to me it seems equival=
ent to 'u-la; qi' - that which.  Thus we could have the equivalent rewritin=
gs:
> > 
> > 1a. Plus, id sio evita excesi specializa per face mo verba akt=
i *u-la; qi* in Plu Palaeo Lingua gene face per tri alo ma. 
> > 
> > 2a. "=
Mi ne es tu, e ne ski *u-la; qi* tu ski," reakti Huitze, ..."
> > 
> > Is t=
hat how you all understand qod's meaning?  Other thoughts?
> > 
> > (Note -=
 I realize 2a violates the rule in 18 Steps stating that 'qi' should be omi=
tted in this case.  please overlook so we can focus on the main point.)
> >=
 
> > Gratia!!
> > Kim
> >
>



