---
authorName: "T\xF3th L\xE1szl\xF3"
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: =?iso-8859-2?q?T=F3th=20L=E1szl=F3=20?= &lt;leslie_toth@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAyLjAzMTIyNDE4NDkzNzA4MDM2ODE5ODdAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 249
msgSnippet: Dear Mr. Robin, ... Could you explain me what were you think of when you
  mentioned the range of languages ? ... Maybe those who are using Esperanto would
  be
nextInTime: 250
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1072288177'
prevInTime: 248
prevInTopic: 0
profile: leslie_toth
replyTo: LIST
senderId: iREtKf-C3dm7OS2vkXm1Z9FIPPaaJelhS_XOGs3C4CZMRlJxwTzYM6-wxwR7JrYrOVfJr5ko6v1XPNUNar_aO2GmCHHFv3RBRAJ9nycvxCSUCFm0mFluA-WDxQh-kbyxCVvVf_02YXtO
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: The quality of a language
topicId: 249
userId: 21276468
---


Dear Mr. Robin, 

 
> The two languages, Esperanto and Glosa, seem to be a=
t 
> the opposite sides of the range of languages.

Could you explain me wh=
at were you think of when you mentioned "the range of languages"?

> [E]   =
I would hope we can work together to mix the two languages to make a 
> bet=
ter language; but it would need so much change that the final product 
> wi=
ll have the appearance of neither Glosa nor Esperanto, and would make 
> no=
body happy.

Maybe those who are using Esperanto would be not happy, becaus=
e they are already many as number, but I think the users of the Glosa are n=
ot too numerouse so far. Otherwise it doesn't matter what would be the opin=
ion of those who are speaking Esperanto or Glosa. What is really important =
are those who will learn the new more suitable language from this time on, =
because they are the most as number. 
Meanwhile I got some information abou=
t Glosa, studying that lessons about Glosa found on the Internet.

But I co=
uldn't get to know so far,  if you can express yourself using Glosa in a ve=
ry high standard way, in the same manner as in Enlish or Esperanto. If that=
 works, I would be greatly satisfied with Glosa because I think that is the=
 most expected quality of a language!

> [E]   Sadly, I have no time for th=
e needed work with Glosa, thus a new 
> language between Glosa and Esperant=
o will need to have its own starting 
> development.  I am 67 years old, an=
d have no time for this new development 
> work.

I'm not too young either,=
 I'm 48 years old.

regards,
Laslo 

