---
authorName: Marcel Springer
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Marcel Springer &lt;marcel@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PG5zaWZ0dCsxYTYwam5lQFlhaG9vR3JvdXBzLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMTYwOTI5MTI0MzE2Ljc4MWVjOGRiLm1hcmNlbEBtc3ByaW5nZXIuZGU+
headers.referencesHeader: PG5qb2twMit0dWRkQFlhaG9vR3JvdXBzLmNvbT4JPDYyQzBFRTYzLTU4MkMtNEUzMy1BMUU1LTcyODlFQ0QzRjEzQkBldmVydHlwZS5jb20+CTxuc2lmdHQrMWE2MGpuZUBZYWhvb0dyb3Vwcy5jb20+
layout: email
msgId: 2524
msgSnippet: 'Glosa seqe ###. Dear Glosa-pe and dear James, many thanks for your generous
  offer! And welcome to glosalist! The website and the domain www.glosa.org are mine.'
nextInTime: 2525
nextInTopic: 2531
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1475145796'
prevInTime: 2523
prevInTopic: 2523
profile: marcel_ingo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: tTq8NCKp8FsBA-BRMkRWUotK6VCVg3hE7RUSTKs1czAn0armwlx9ePEEymzYc-M201B2f3sxJsGKSVsJani0umVngOObd1YcscS3rw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Glosa as a charity'
topicId: 2520
userId: 142192462
---

                                                      Glosa seqe ###. 

Dear Glosa-pe 

and dear James, many thanks for your generous offer!
And welcome to glosalist! 

The website and the domain www.glosa.org are mine.
The listowner of glosalist at yahoo is also me. 
So both things are not at risk at the moment, 
as I am still alive and well yet. 
The registration of glosa.org (greetings to Michael Emerson and thanks
for his research) will be prolonged automatically by the provider.
Money is not needed, but please keep Glosa in your heart and stay at
glosalist. 
Sorry to you all that I did not react and make this clear earlier.

Greetings also to Hillary Bowman. 
The charity thing was mainly relevant for donators who live in the UK
and pay taxes there, I believe. 
Nevertheless, perhaps you can get in touch again with the former
members of the charity group someday. 

Upload in March already, but no notification here: 
Please have a look at the very last issue of Plu Glosa Nota  

  http://www.glosa.org/pgn/pgn097.pdf 

and have a nice autumn, saluta

Marcel


### 

Karo Glosa-pe
  e karo James, mega gratia de tu generoso ofere.
E bene-veni a glosalist!
  U www-pagina e dominio www.glosa.org es proprie de mi.
glosalist a yahoo plus es proprie de mi.
So plu-la ra ne habe risko nu-tem,
kausa mi habe bio e sani a-nu.
U registra de glosa.org (saluta a Michael Emerson e gratia de an
recerka) fu gene prolongi automati ex inter-reti kura-firma.
Valuta ne gene nece, sed place tena Glosa in vi kordi e dura resta a
glosalist. 
Penite a panto vi; mi ne pa reakti e klari u-ci pre.
  Saluta plus a Hillary Bowman.
U karita ra pa habe maxi relati a plu dona-pe; qi vive in UK e paga
plu fiska la; mi kredi. 
Anti-co, posi uno di tu gene tange itera a plu pa-membra de
karita-grega. 
  Ana-kargo tem meno 3, sed nuli nota ci a-nu:
Place vide u ta ultima nova-papira Plu Glosa Nota
http://www.glosa.org/pgn/pgn097.pdf 
e habe gluko sperma-tem, saluta 
  Marcel


