---
authorName: David Porter
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;David Porter&quot; &lt;daveyporter@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMTcxMDE2MTg0ODA0LjVEQjkwNEUwMDFGQG10YS0xLm9wZW5tYWlsYm94Lm9nPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDhFMkNFN0VFN0FENjQxRTRBNTRDNUFEMDM1RDlEMkI3QERhdmlkUEM+
headers.referencesHeader: PDIwMTcxMDE2MTg0ODA0LjVEQjkwNEUwMDFGQG10YS0xLm9wZW5tYWlsYm94Lm9nPg==
layout: email
msgId: 2533
msgSnippet: Hi 3zja Just to acknowledge your email - I have an interest in Glosa but
  am not knowledgeable when it comes to the grammatics so cannot answer your query
  -
nextInTime: 2534
nextInTopic: 2534
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1508192449'
prevInTime: 2532
prevInTopic: 2532
profile: ecclesonc
replyTo: LIST
senderId: rxBxQXisTYR1aHXrB0bgfTchNz1E2Am-XH-_Q9c5alID7lobpFnWj1Xg7eD-HEsTJA56bW_OnI38GP3-T_5TgDVQ3xglocJctWy1EeaU-UA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Tense and number and other things'
topicId: 2532
userId: 335799855
---


------=_NextPart_000_068E_01D346D5.6BB070A0
Content-Type: text/plain;
	charset="UTF-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable

Hi 3zja
Just to acknowledge your email - I have an interest in Glosa but am=
 not knowledgeable when it comes to the grammatics so cannot answer your qu=
ery - hopefully someone will.   I think that the language is on the back bu=
rner and has been since Ron Clark and then Wendy Ashby passed away.   From =
earlier Glosa material Ron and Wendy wrote that the context was similar to =
Chinese, maybe therein is a clue.   Regards Davidjp


--- Original Message =
----- 
  From: 3zja@... [glosalist] 
  To: glosalist@yahoogroup=
s.com 
  Sent: Monday, October 16, 2017 7:48 PM
  Subject: [glosalist] Tens=
e and number and other things


    
  Hi Glosalist!

  Lately I've started=
 to read about Glosa, and I have some questions. I have an interest in lang=
uages, especially auxlangs, on a hobby level. One feature (or rather lack o=
f feature) that I've come to like in languages that I've come to like is no=
t mandatory tense and number. European languages often (always?) mark tense=
/time and number (singular or plural), "mandatore-ly", but in some language=
s that is only described if it is of interest, or is needed for clarity.

 =
 This makes me wonder:

  1) How mandatory is marking tense and number in G=
losa?
  2) Would Glosa work, in theory, without marking tense/number?

  As=
 I've understood it, marking number is semi-mandatory: u/un/plu is not need=
ed if the sentence is still clear without it. I suppose one catch is that..=
 u/un/plu is used to make the phrase clearer, to show what is a noun and wh=
at is a verb.. am I right in presuming that it fills such a role?

  Would =
sentences like:
  * mi pa lekto bibli, e logi [that]..
  * pa-di, mi lekto =
bibli, e logi [that]..

  be normal Glosa? 

  In Pandunia, another simple =
auxlang in development, the end of the subject/the beginning of the verb ph=
rase is instead marked by a word (while the noun is marked instead in Glosa=
).. I suppose then that.. the phrase-start "mi grafo ..." could already mea=
n both "I write" and "my writing", right? (Thinking about the limits in reg=
ards to comprehensibility and how much difference the u/un/plu makes..).

 =
 (Btw, how active is the Facebook group?)

  Ami saluta,
  3zja

  
------=_NextPart_000_068E_01D346D5.6BB070A0
Content-Type: text/html;
	charset="UTF-8"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable

=EF=BB=BF<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.0 Transitional//EN">
<HT=
ML><HEAD>
<META content=3D"text/html; charset=3Dutf-8" http-equiv=3DContent=
-Type>
<META name=3DGENERATOR content=3D"MSHTML 9.00.8112.16800"></HEAD>
<B=
ODY style=3D"BACKGROUND-COLOR: #fff" bgColor=3D#ffffff>
<DIV><FONT size=3D2=
 face=3DArial>Hi 3zja</FONT></DIV>
<DIV><FONT size=3D2 face=3DArial>Just to=
 acknowledge your email - I have an interest 
in Glosa but am not knowledge=
able when it comes to the grammatics so cannot 
answer your query - hopeful=
ly someone will.   I think that the 
language is on the back burn=
er and has been since Ron Clark and then Wendy Ashby 
passed away. &nb=
sp; From earlier Glosa material Ron and Wendy wrote that 
the context was s=
imilar to Chinese, maybe therein is a clue.   Regards 
Davidjp</F=
ONT></DIV>
<DIV><FONT size=3D2 face=3DArial></FONT> </DIV>
<DIV><FONT =
size=3D2 face=3DArial></FONT> </DIV>
<DIV>--- Original Message ----- <=
/DIV>
<BLOCKQUOTE 
style=3D"BORDER-LEFT: #000000 2px solid; PADDING-LEFT: 5=
px; PADDING-RIGHT: 0px; MARGIN-LEFT: 5px; MARGIN-RIGHT: 0px">
  <DIV 
  sty=
le=3D"FONT: 10pt arial; BACKGROUND: #e4e4e4; font-color: black"><B>From:</B=
> 
  <A title=3Dglosalist@yahoogroups.com 
  href=3D"mailto:3zja@openmailbo=
x.org [glosalist]">3zja@... 
  [glosalist]</A> </DIV>
  <DIV st=
yle=3D"FONT: 10pt arial"><B>To:</B> <A title=3Dglosalist@yahoogroups.com 
 =
 href=3D"mailto:glosalist@yahoogroups.com">glosalist@yahoogroups.com</A> </=
DIV>
  <DIV style=3D"FONT: 10pt arial"><B>Sent:</B> Monday, October 16, 201=
7 7:48 
  PM</DIV>
  <DIV style=3D"FONT: 10pt arial"><B>Subject:</B> [glosa=
list] Tense and number and 
  other things</DIV>
  <DIV><BR></DIV><SPAN sty=
le=3D"DISPLAY: none"> </SPAN> 
  <DIV id=3Dygrp-text>
  <P>Hi Glosalis=
t!<BR><BR>Lately I've started to read about Glosa, and I have 
  some quest=
ions. I have an interest in languages, especially auxlangs, on a 
  hobby l=
evel. One feature (or rather lack of feature) that I've come to like in 
  =
languages that I've come to like is not mandatory tense and number. Europea=
n 
  languages often (always?) mark tense/time and number (singular or plur=
al), 
  "mandatore-ly", but in some languages that is only described if it =
is of 
  interest, or is needed for clarity.<BR><BR>This makes me wonder:<B=
R><BR>1) How 
  mandatory is marking tense and number in Glosa?<BR>2) Would=
 Glosa work, in 
  theory, without marking tense/number?<BR><BR>As I've und=
erstood it, marking 
  number is semi-mandatory: u/un/plu is not needed if =
the sentence is still 
  clear without it. I suppose one catch is that.. u/=
un/plu is used to make the 
  phrase clearer, to show what is a noun and wh=
at is a verb.. am I right in 
  presuming that it fills such a role?<BR><BR=
>Would sentences like:<BR>* mi pa 
  lekto bibli, e logi [that]..<BR>* pa-d=
i, mi lekto bibli, e logi 
  [that]..<BR><BR>be normal Glosa? <BR><BR>In Pa=
ndunia, another simple auxlang 
  in development, the end of the subject/th=
e beginning of the verb phrase is 
  instead marked by a word (while the no=
un is marked instead in Glosa).. I 
  suppose then that.. the phrase-start =
"mi grafo ..." could already mean both "I 
  write" and "my writing", right=
? (Thinking about the limits in regards to 
  comprehensibility and how muc=
h difference the u/un/plu makes..).<BR><BR>(Btw, 
  how active is the Faceb=
ook group?)<BR><BR>Ami saluta,<BR>3zja</P></DIV><!-- end group email --></B=
ODY></HTML>

------=_NextPart_000_068E_01D346D5.6BB070A0--

