---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAyLjA0MDExOTIzMzExNDAwODY3Njc3NzRAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDEyMTAwNTI1Ny4wMWQ3ZThmMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 272
msgSnippet: 'Saluta Plu Glosa-pe, At 11:31 PM 1/19/04 +0100, Laslo pa grafo, ... Boni
  idea Laslo. Id posi sio proba uno-ra.  Poli anua pre nu, u-ci experimenta pa gene '
nextInTime: 273
nextInTopic: 273
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1074611034'
prevInTime: 271
prevInTopic: 269
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: aS4TcQ_-js0lik8_6RhIc0YcWvhMqr9D-WyzSHgHyyHZks_165e7q41b0bB_n5vn16J6hHqPws5ClVNsDVgMrVbMjZ_J7iCmcRFTKWKgIwdexIThjQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Testing the languages'
topicId: 269
userId: 147970330
---

Saluta Plu Glosa-pe,
At 11:31 PM 1/19/04 +0100, Laslo pa grafo,

>I propose you that an english text should be translated to Glosa by a 
>competent one, and then an another competent one (who had never read that 
>original text before) would translate it back to english. At the end we 
>could compare the original text with the text translated there and back.
>
>That procedure we could repeat by Esperanto, and Ido. I think, this would 
>be a good way to test the abilities of the planned languages. Then we will 
>be able to decide about the best chojce.
>
>Of course, it needs many trials to get a reliable result.
   Boni idea Laslo.
   Id posi sio proba uno-ra.  Poli anua pre nu, u-ci experimenta pa gene 
kompleti per uti u puta-me: u-la resulta pa es mali. Sed, mi kredi plu 
nu-di traduce programa sio ergo mega ma boni.
   Ko plu-pe; qi ski plu vario ge-designa lingua, u-ci experimenta sio 
probabili monstro ke plu major lingua pasa, ko plu klari traduce.

   Sed u ge-produce frasa fu monstro plu muta si na uti u dificili exempla 
pro un experimenta.  Anti-co, mi kredi u sekunda versio, seqe traduce, fu 
habe nuli signifika muta.

   Place dona a na tu idea de un experimenta skema, u dificili de plu 
frasa, e u mode de metro u signifika de plu muta.
   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ __ __ __ _ _
   Good idea Laslo.
   It possibly would prove something.  Many years previously, this 
experiment was done using a computer: that result was bad.  But I believe 
the present translation programs would work mucch better.
   With people who know the various designed languages, would probably show 
that the main languages pass, with clear translation.

   But the produced sentence will show changes if we use a difficult 
example for the experiment.  However, I believe the second version, after 
translation, will have no significant changes.

   Please give us your idea of the experimental plan, the difficulty of the 
sentences, and the way of measuring the significance of changes.
   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Saluta,

Robin Gaskell

   To help with usage, I use:-
      _GLOSA 6000 - 6000 Greek and Latin Words and Roots_, 1992, Glosa
      Download (144pp) Glosa Internet Dictionary (GID): English - Glosa,
          2000, Glosalist [now updated on Marcel's website]
      Greek dictionary
      Latin Dictionary
      & common sense, inherent language ability, and the idea of Chomsky's
          "Universal Language"
      My original website is now hosted by Bill Patterson at:-
            http://www.kafejo.com/rgaskell




