---
authorName: Mario Montijo
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Mario Montijo&quot; &lt;mariomontijo@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGJ2cmJnNCtvZGdlQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 287
msgSnippet: 'AVE AMI GLOSA PE: TU NE VENDE TU ANIMA A KIZIN! SALUTA, MARIO GLOSA:
  MAYA NARA 1 U ANDRO QI PA VENDE AN ANIMA U KRON A TEM, U BONI SED NE FORTUNE ANDRO
  PA'
nextInTime: 288
nextInTopic: 288
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1075917124'
prevInTime: 286
prevInTopic: 0
profile: mariomontijo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: vkTBB1H7AUZqh0r5ReERsF193NcHv49LMwfhJltZaCCdJsIP-XQgyfKQ90AQJxwCX755D5d3a3UeMhzNMuswgCl2m7nCT3TLjT-sS4xoCQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: MAYA NARA 1
topicId: 287
userId: 146050109
---

AVE AMI GLOSA PE:
TU NE VENDE TU ANIMA A KIZIN!
SALUTA,
MARIO

GLOSA:

MAYA=
 NARA 1

U ANDRO QI PA VENDE AN ANIMA

U KRON A TEM, U BONI SED NE FORTUNE =
ANDRO PA DECIDE VENDE AN ANIMA A 
U DIABOLI PRO  FUGI SE DE AN PLU TURBA. A=
N PA VOCI KIZIN E KRON AN PA 
HAVE AN LA, FACIA A FACIA, AN PA DICE AN QOD =
AN PA VOLU. KIZIN PA 
HEDO U IDEA DE FERO U ANIMA DE BONI ANDRO. 
A KAMBIO =
DE AN ANIMA U ANDRO PA PETITIO SETI RA: MO PER SINGU DI DE U 
SETIMANA. PER=
 U PRIMA DI AN PA PETITIO VOLUTA, E IMEDIA AN PLU MARSU 
PA ES PLE KO KRISO=
. U BI DI AN PA VOLU BONI SANI, E ID PA ES KONCEDE. 
U TRI DI AN PA ES FAMI=
, E PA PETITIO SITO, E PA VORA A ERUPTI. U 
TETRA DI AN PA PETITIO PLU FE, =
E PA ES PERI DE U MAXI KALI PLU IMAGI 
FE. U PENTA DI AN PA VOLU KRATI, E P=
A BIO HOMO LOKA KRATI PE. U SIX 
DI AN PA VOLU VIAGIA. E IMEDIA AN VISITA K=
ILO LOKA.
U LA KRON KIZIN PA DICE AN:
=96E NU QE TU VOLU? KOGITA KO KURA, K=
A ID ES TU ULTIMA DI.
=96NU, MI SOLO VOLU SATI U TRAKTO.
=96DICE MI, E MI F=
U KONCEDE ID A TU.
=96MI VOLU LAVE U CI MELANO PLU FABA A QOD DEVENI LEUKO.=

=96ID ES FACILI=96 PA DICE KAZIN.
E AN PROTO LAVE U PLU FABA, SED KOMO MU =
NE PA DEVENI LEUKO, AN AUTO 
PA KOGITA: "U CI ANDRO HAVE FALSI MI E MI HAVE=
 LOSE U ANIMA. PRO QOD 
U CI NE OKASI ITERA, DE NU A FINI, MU FU ES MELARNO=
, LEUKO, XANTO E 
RUBI PLU FABA".

ENGLISH:

MAYA LEGEND 1

THE MAN WHO SOL=
D HIS SOUL

ONCE UPON A TIME, A GOOD BUT UNFORTUNATE MAN DECIDED TO SELL HI=
S SOUL 
TO THE DEVIL TO GET HIMSELF OUT OF HIS TROUBLES. HE INVOKED KIZIN A=
ND 
WHEN HE HAD HIM THERE, FACE TO FACE, HE TOLD HIM WHAT HE WANTED. 
KIZIN=
 LIKED THE IDEA OF TAKING AWAY THE SOUL OF A GOOD MAN. 
IN EXCHANGE FOR HIS=
 SOUL THE MAN ASKED FOR SEVEN THINGS: ONE FOR EACH 
DAY OF THE WEEK. FOR TH=
E FIRST DAY HE ASKED FOR MONEY, AND STRAIGHT 
AWAY HIS POCKETS WERE FILLED =
WITH GOLD. ON THE SECOND DAY HE WANTED 
GOOD HEALTH, AND IT WAS GRANTED. ON=
 THE THIRD DAY HE WAS HUNGRY AND 
ASKED FOR FOOD, AND ATE UNTIL BUSTING. ON=
 THE FOURTH DAY HE ASKED FOR 
WOMEN AND WAS SURROUNDED BY THE MOST BEAUTIFU=
L WOMEN IMAGINABLE. ON 
THE FIFTH DAY HE WANTED POWER AND LIVED LIKE A LOCA=
L RULER ON THE 
SIXTH DAY HE WANTED TO TRAVEL AND IN A JIFFY HE VISITED A T=
HOUSAND 
PLACES.
THEN KIZIN SAID TO HIM: 
=97AND NOW WHAT DO YOU WANT? THIN=
K CAREFULLY, AS IT IS YOUR LAST DAY. 
=97NOW, I JUST WANT TO SATISFY ONE WH=
IM. 
=97TELL ME, AND I WILL GRANT YOU IT. 
=97I WANT TO WASH THESE BLACK BE=
ANS HERE, UNTIL THEY TURN WHITE. 
=97THAT'S EASY=97 SAID KIZIN
AND HE BEGAN=
 TO WASH THE BEANS, BUT AS THEY DID NOT TURN WHITE HE 
THOUGHT TO HIMSELF: =
"THIS MAN HAS DECEIVED ME AND I HAVE LOST A SOUL. 
SO THAT THIS DOESN'T HAP=
PEN AGAIN, FROM NOW ON THERE WILL BE BLACK 
BEANS, WHITE BEANS, YELLOW BEAN=
S AND RED BEANS.




