---
authorName: Manuel Valderrama
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Manuel Valderrama &lt;cp46tan@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAwLjA0MDIwOTA4NTQ0NzU3NzczODI3OTlAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQwMkJFN0JCLjMwOTA0MDlAaG90cG9wLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAwLjA0MDIwOTA4NTQ0NzU3NzczODI3OTlAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
layout: email
msgId: 321
msgSnippet: "Saluta a karo L\xE1szl\xF3 e pan Glosa-pe! ... Another extreme example\
  \ is Chinese. I think that there is no problem with isolated languages. I also think\
  \ that"
nextInTime: 322
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1076619195'
prevInTime: 320
prevInTopic: 307
profile: cp46tan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 6Hx6vcYSW76buf1Ll7C86IJm6Osw_7IXz3o8z_ykwo0jIBTDzsjLwBLQ5fBCESe4GYbSFFfwtwt2nt9hi638LbPiDM1iLHWaFAr9Cxw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Inflections'
topicId: 307
userId: 65375870
---

Saluta a karo L=E1szl=F3 e pan Glosa-pe!

T=F3th L=E1szl=F3 pa grafo:

>Rob=
in Gaskell wrote:
>
>  
>
>>While other have tried to dissuade me, and have=
 extolled the virtues of 
>>inflection, I still wonder why English, the lea=
st inflected of the national 
>>languages, has done so well.
>>    
>>
>
>A=
.)
>When I first met English, I wondered how a language that don't use infl=
ections can express all the human idea.
>
Another extreme example is Chines=
e. I think that there is no problem 
with isolated languages. I also think =
that sometimes the supposed 
difficulty of inflected languages is overempha=
sized. I personally found 
Latin more easy than English in some aspects, bu=
t I must admit I have an 
extrange linguistic sense (an it is also true tha=
t latin has a very 
regular declination/conjugation, with only 8 irregular =
verbs, and very 
few irregular nouns).

>And I found the English extremly u=
seful.
>But then, I had to get to know of it's secrets. So, that is possibl=
e only if there are a very big amount of expressions that helps you to expr=
ess yourself in conformity with yours requirement. And those expressions ma=
inly don't give you a logical sense of the meaning of it's words, but you m=
ust learn it's meaning in advance.
>As me, that takes more time, then if yo=
u were using infleksions (of course, I thought only about inflected plannad=
 languages).
>  
>
Well, to compare an almost isolated natural language wit=
h an inflected 
planned language is not very fair. Esperanto is very much m=
ore easy that 
any natural language I know, and the truth is that it is not=
 so 
inflected (two cases, two genders, and a very easy conjugation). Compa=
re 
its inflections with that of slavic languages!

>I don't master Glosa, =
but I hope that it don't follows that way of English, which made you to lea=
rn an enormous quantity of expressions.
>  
>
For this to happen, it is rea=
lly essential that the number of 
non-English Glosa speakers grows. Native-=
English Glosa speakers can, 
incounciously, introduce too many anglicism in=
to Glosa.

>B.)
>Why Glosa didn't get spread? I think, that it could be bec=
ouse there aren't dictionaries and coursebooks all around the world. And wh=
ich is more important (as me), you can't read enough immaginative literatur=
e that could give you command in a language.
>Even "Ido" din't get spread b=
ecause of the same thing, although it is better than Esp.
>  
>
You have po=
inted the greatest flaw of Glosa at the moment! The learning 
of a language=
 should be extensive, not intensive. If you have many text 
to read, or rec=
ords to hear, you adquire in a natural way a feeling of 
what is natural in=
 a language and what's not. On the other side, even if 
a language has very=
 few rules or very easy syntax, trying to say/write 
something while thinki=
ng "Am I constructing a correct sentence?" is not 
so easy... sure, even if=
 you can read a lot of material, this would 
happen, but with that great am=
ount of linguistic input there will be a 
strong feedback between the learn=
er and the language, and the learning 
rate will experiment a great boost.
=

I can talk about my own experience. Thanks to internet, I can read a lot 
=
of English daily, and I have some unconcious "sense" of what is correct 
or=
 not in English. English has some strange constraints on its 
grammatical r=
ules, and consequently my sense of correctness in English 
is not that one =
of a native speaker (and also the kind of English used 
in international co=
mmunication is somewhat different from the English 
that is spoken in anglo=
saxon countries), but for me it is enough, 
although my English is awkward.=


The truth is that I have a better linguistic sense of Latin than of 
Glos=
a, in spite of the difficulty of the Latin language. But I can read 
tons o=
f Latin in the web (for example: www.thelatinlibrary.com), and I'm 
also su=
bscribed to a latin speaking mailing list named "Grex Latine 
Loquentium". =
So here is a clear proof of what I'm saying. Taking into 
account the easin=
ess of Glosa, with just a fraction of the "corpus" 
needed for acquiring th=
e feeling of a natural language people could 
obtain a good linguistic comp=
etence in Glosa.

>Laslo
>
>  
>



