---
authorName: "T\xF3th L\xE1szl\xF3"
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: =?iso-8859-2?q?T=F3th=20L=E1szl=F3=20?= &lt;leslie_toth@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAyLjA0MDIxNTE5NTM1NzI5MzI0MzA1NDNAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 327
msgSnippet: 'Hi Robin, ... En Esp You can make up to 40 words using a single word-root
  and the lexical formatives. san*a = being healthy san*o = health san*e = healthily '
nextInTime: 328
nextInTopic: 335
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1076871237'
prevInTime: 326
prevInTopic: 325
profile: leslie_toth
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 4g-FmRe1FRzqoOfR06zEM3_IPPGHPiZLCoL4N5AKQ2VHZd4fVALA3IC9oHDiEArL8zxz12j1bgFq88crbxMVnpGbMSCywA2ni1uZ5_HRLxmByndhemZMrIPhJ44HlsfipjGorOpO_J9f
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Word system'
topicId: 323
userId: 21276468
---


Hi Robin,


>       Eng. If you briefly show the points with examples from=
 Esperanto, 
> English and Glosa,such a contribution will give much more me=
aning to all of
> us.
 
  En Esp You can make up to 40 words using a single=
 word-root and the lexical formatives.

san*a =3D being healthy
san*o =3D h=
ealth
san*e =3D healthily
san*u =3D be healthy
san*IG*a =3D cure sy.
san*ET=
*a =3D a little bit healthy
san*EG*a =3D very healthy
san*IG*i =3D to cure
=
san*IG*o =3D the fakt of to cure
san*IGX*i =3D to be recovering
san*EC*o =
=3D health as feature
san*UL*o =3D the man who is healthy
san*UL*IN*o =3D t=
he woman who is healthy
san*IG*EBL*a =3D who can be recovered.
san*il*o =3D=
 medicine
san*ist*o =3D therapeutist
san*IG*ant*e =3D while sy be being cur=
ed
san*IG*int*e =3D while sy had been cured
san*IG*ont*e =3D while sy will =
be cured
san*IGX*int*a =3D who have been cured
ne*san*a =3D sy is not healt=
hy
MAL*san*a =3D being ill, sick
MAL*san*o =3D illness, sickness
MAL*san*e =
=3D while sy is ill/sick
MAL*san*IG*a =3D unhealthy
MAL*san*ET*a =3D being =
unwell, being indisposed
MAL*san*IG*i =3D to make sy ill
MAL*san*IGX*i =3D =
to geting ill
MAL*san*UL*o =3D an ill man
MAL*san*UL*IN*o =3D an ill woman
=
MAL*san*EM*a =3D being sickly
MAL*san*UJ*EJ*o =3D hospital
MAL*san*UL*EJ*a =
=3D hospital (as adjective)
NE*san*IG*EBL*a =3D incurable
MAL*san*UL*AR*o =
=3D the multitude of ill people.
(Maybe I made many errors while I was witi=
ng the translations)

You can number the special words or expressions that =
a non-joined word system needs in adition.

I wont advice anyone to try to =
make new words using roots and endings: hard + ly =3D hardly - because of t=
he non joined word system of the English or those other same languages.

Ot=
her examples:
Esp.:
balai + ilo =3D balailo

But Eng.:
to sweep + tool =3D =
broom

  So, you have to learn words in adition because of the non-joined w=
ord-system.
But in the meanwhile it is easier to read as "picture-reading" =
an independent word (broom) than a joined word (balailo).

  There are adva=
ntages and disadvantages using different word systems.
But in accordance wi=
th the quantity of the words that you have to learn, the joined word system=
 lets you to use much fewer number of word roots and expressions.


Kind re=
gards,

Laslo
