---
authorName: "T\xF3th L\xE1szl\xF3"
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: =?iso-8859-2?q?T=F3th=20L=E1szl=F3=20?= &lt;leslie_toth@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAwLjA0MDIxOTEwMjQ0ODk5Mzg0MzU4MzdAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 342
msgSnippet: Dear Robin, ... When I read the same reactions, I always think of some
  persecution complex. In my circle of Esp language users, I am considered an enemy
  of
nextInTime: 343
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1077182688'
prevInTime: 341
prevInTopic: 335
profile: leslie_toth
replyTo: LIST
senderId: hmrfZ7LiNJIIPSqcSUFaTMqMGuF925trIEsd73FMjklRBd7tHjMu7smfwygNrZqcjqVXJLDOr_alPCOOgYTbL0NDehX7p54UJ_NH3rjXYpKWHt4KO861Rp7b5mkBNECowCvlOnWkoNzb
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Word system'
topicId: 323
userId: 21276468
---


Dear Robin,


>       Your post was a little like a promo for Esperanto, a=
nd compared 
> Esperanto's logicality with the non-integrated nature of the=
 lexicon of 
> English.
> 
>        Basically, I suspect that the members o=
f the Glosalist wish to avoid 
> negative criticism and would prefer to hea=
r criticism of the positive kind.

  When I read the same reactions, I alwa=
ys think of some persecution complex.
In my circle of Esp language users, I=
 am considered an enemy of Esp, because I am always criticizing the bad fea=
tures of it. 
  Even the users of Esp feel them persecuted, when sy makes c=
ritical remarks about their beloved language. This is reason that I don't l=
ike those who have fallen in love with a certain language. And it seems, th=
at it is a generally phenomen at those who are delighted with a language (b=
oth whu are using Esp, Glosa or Ido).
This is the main cause that I am mess=
aging here. 
  Actually, I'm looking for a better language. I don't conside=
r me "Esperantisto" because I'm not a fanatic of it, and I never would be i=
t, but I am trying to search the best planned language.

  I'm not contente=
d with Esp for some reasons:
- I don't agree with the use of the accusative=
 endings.
- I don't agree with the accord of the adjectives to the nouns wh=
en using accusative or/and plural endings.
- I don't agree with the total f=
reedom of word order (it makes the readind more difficult, and slows down i=
t).
- I don't agree the resonance of the Esp (maybe it could be because of =
the abundance of "j" [like enjoy, play], and "cx" [like chalk, chips]).
- I=
 don't agree with the non-separated system of it's compound words (it also =
slows down the speed of reading and make tired the eyes).

  And I don't li=
ke the people who are always contented with them and their works. I'm not c=
ontented even with me. I think, who is always contented, stops to progress.=
 And I think, that it has no sense to discuss about what works, but about w=
hat gives problems, about  what doesn't works, or works less well.

  Maybe=
 you won't believe what I am declaring: I have no personal biases for Esp. =
or for other planned languages. I am not a fundamentalist.

>        So, ye=
s, there are apparent efficiencies within the Esperanto 
> system, but not =
everyone's mind works in this "filing cabinet" way.  A 
> quick, sharp mind=
, on hearing a sequence of highly inflected words in a 
> sentence, skips f=
rom one inflected additive to the next, gaining 
> ever-sophisticated compl=
exity of meaning during the fraction of a second 
> that each incoming word=
 has to play across their mind, be processed and 
> understood, then cleari=
ng the mental slate, while the mind is made ready to 
> receive the input o=
f the next multivalent word.

  I didn't only tasted Esp, but I have learnt=
 it in a high level mode. So now, I can express all my mind using it.
And I=
 don't  want only to sample, but to learn Glosa in the same manner (if I wi=
ll make sure of that I will be able to express all my mind like in Esp). I =
could translate easily your above written sophisticated frazes into Esp. An=
d I wanted to reach the same ability with Glosa.
But there aren't enough co=
ursebooks, and genuine dictionaries in several languages.
The word-list doe=
sn't enough. You need dictionaries thet have completions about how to use t=
he concerned word. And you need reading a lot of fictions, immaginative lit=
eratures to gain mastering in a language.
I have experienced it with Esp.

=
>        The ultra-logicality of language works in books where the mind can=
 
> slow down and decode each word - at its own pace - finally assembling t=
he 
> collection of multifaceted signals into the meaningful encoding of th=
ese 
> complexities into a string of ideas that blend into a satisfying 
> =
communication called a sentence.  ... and then on to the next sentence 
> c=
omposed of a new set of puzzles to be decoded and resynthesised into 
> mea=
ning.   Each successive, solved sentence-meaning must be added 
> reflexive=
ly back to interact with the whole thread of thought created by 
> the cont=
ribution of previous sentences.

  You are right. Nevertheless, it's a grea=
t demand. What have to be able a "bridge-language" (it is about a language =
that the people won't use everyday)?
Firstly, you can be able to learn it r=
elative rapidly. Then, you can be able to use it soon after you have mainly=
 learned it, without too much exercises done.

  It's a conflict between to=
 be an easy to learn rapidly and easy to speake language by everybody, and =
a rapidly readable language. I thought of the fact that when you are speaki=
ng, you have to know in active mode a large amount of words. In case of non=
-logical languages, you have to know in addition lots of expressions.
The c=
ompound word system give you the possibility to create the word that you no=
t remember. But in the same time it slows down the reading and the comprehe=
nding.
It is a significant dilemma of what to do.

>         DON'T OVERHEAT=
 THE LISTENER'S BRAIN BY FORCING THEM INTO PLAYING 
> MIND-GAMES WITH EVERY=
 WORD.   This has the effect of turning the receiving 
> of incoming commun=
ication into an experience similar to that of running 
> through a minefiel=
d.

  I agree with it.
But the system that use enormous quantity of express=
ions doesn't work as a "bridge-language".
We can't expect that the people h=
ave learned in advance mass of expressions like in English.
The people want=
 to get command in the language in a short time. And want to master the lan=
guage even if they use it only seldom. They don't want to learn many words =
and expressions. It will be a bridge language, not a mother tangue that you=
 are learning for a long time.


Regards,

Laslo
