---
authorName: Mario Montijo
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Mario Montijo&quot; &lt;mariomontijo@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGMxMzFvYiszN3I0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 345
msgSnippet: "TRISTI REALI Solita Ju-fe Mi pa gene ski de Julia pre bi anua, kron mi\
  \ pa ergo in u pusi Infanti-horti; (ci, u infanti-horti es pro infanti qi eva de\
  \ 3 \u2013 6 "
nextInTime: 346
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1077217867'
prevInTime: 344
prevInTopic: 0
profile: mariomontijo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: D7_ukpmWXFmPoijd2yMnzly9OvwQO7AqJ-WGYF6nAPnGCv_8lXdCtXCGqkOHzWlnQbsRNWxVxL-79c6GNQwVq-Heoza5ydJcpWPNnWsXRg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Plu Histori de u Bio (1)
topicId: 345
userId: 146050109
---

TRISTI REALI

Solita Ju-fe

Mi pa gene ski de Julia pre bi anua, kron mi pa=
 ergo in u pusi 
Infanti-horti; (ci, u infanti-horti es pro infanti qi eva =
de 3 =96 6 
anua.)
U-la tem Julia pa eva sixa anua. Fe pa simi onto norma, =
homo panto 
hetero ju-pe, sed pa es u mega difere. Pre mo anua qi na ski al=
elo, 
fe matri, patri e pusi an-sibi ge-lose bio in u vagona mali-acide. U =

mali-acide pa gene kausa ex u narko duce-pe.
Julia plus pa es ad-in u vago=
na e solo fe supra-bio. Fe pa gene algo 
fo mali. Fe pa re-gene sko qo de a=
mbula =96e qo bio minus fe famili=96. 
Sed fe ne pa lose fe felici!. Fe meg=
a pa ridi =96homo panto hetero 
infanti=96.
Mi ne ski qo-mega fe memo de u =
mali acide. Mi ne ski qo-freqe fe memo 
fe famili, e mi ne ski qo mega mali=
-somni fe pa have.
Mi ne vide fe de u-la-tem. Sed mi ski; nu, fe bio ko fe =
"neo" famili; 
fe have u "neo" matri, u "neo" patri e "neo" plu fe-sibi e p=
lu an-
sibi, homo fe pa more dice.

Bi pikto ex Julia: (epi reti-pagina)

N=
ara ex KATHRIN

martin_bode@...
http://www.angelfire.com/hi3/divage=
r/sadr.html

Sad Reality
Lonely girl 
I met Julia two years ago when I was =
working in a small kindergarten 
(kindergarten here is for 
children age 3 =
- 6 years). 
At this time Julia was six years old. She seemed to be as norm=
al as 
all the other kids, but there was a big difference. One year before =

we met, her mom, dad and her baby brother died in a car accident. The 
acc=
ident was caused by a drunken driver. 
Julia was in the car too and she was=
 the only one who survived. She 
was injured pretty bad. She had 
to learn =
how to walk again - and how to live without her family - but 
she didn't lo=
st her happiness! She was laughing a lot - like all the 
other children. 
I=
 don't know how much she remembers about the accident. I don't know 
how of=
ten she remembers her 
family and I don't know how many nightmares she has.=
 
I haven't seen her since then, but I know she's living with her "new" 
fa=
mily now, she has a "new" 
mom, a "new" dad and "new" sisters and brothers,=
 like she used to 
say. 

Two pictures painted by Julia 



