---
authorName: "T\xF3th L\xE1szl\xF3"
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: =?iso-8859-2?q?T=F3th=20L=E1szl=F3=20?= &lt;leslie_toth@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAyLjA0MDIyMjE5MTM0NzkyNTY1MzkzMDZAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 372
msgSnippet: Saluta Robin, ... You know, all the ethnic languages uses plenty of expressions.
  That is one of the the reasons that they are very difficult to be learnt. You
nextInTime: 373
nextInTopic: 373
numMessagesInTopic: 21
postDate: '1077473627'
prevInTime: 371
prevInTopic: 371
profile: leslie_toth
replyTo: LIST
senderId: b2cCwXoOVnQV1UOyMpVHgdipAOVbcjQdJeiBKjR7zaQAHHZDp_wNTiiU0CfEoOdeEzYUVx6Edc8Pn_XxIZYYyXrHwrwkj2NzRrpAa1U4SVrXQN-wf7rNjEumiSnJz_9TDF3fBgVEqCSr
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Too much plainness'
topicId: 361
userId: 21276468
---


Saluta Robin,


>      I don't know how the ancient Greeks or Romans denot=
ed the possessive, 
> but that could be a fruitful line of enquiry.

  You =
know, all the ethnic languages uses plenty of expressions. That is one of t=
he the reasons that they are very difficult to be learnt.
  You don't be su=
rprized if you experience that an ethnic language don't use one or another =
gramatical solution. This is because the ethnic languages without exception=
 are wheeling by expressions. And this is just what we should avoid in a "b=
ridge-language".

  My exemple using the verb "to mother" you can imagine e=
ven with an another verb:
[Otherwise "motherhood" in the hungarian language=
 has a different adequate word (be mother, mothering).]

  (I don't know ho=
w to say "car" and "telephone"):
/Mi "car" "telephone" domi./  =3D> "My car=
 phones to the home." [It is an intelligent, computerised car!]  or  "I am =
driving while I am making a call to the home." or "I am phoning to the home=
 during my driving."  -  In many languages the verb "to car"  functions, an=
d it does mean "to drive". That's not a sleng! There are plenty of nouns th=
at functions in the same manner in several languages.

  All in all, I thin=
k that the main problem is how to interpret the meaning of the words, and h=
ow to express yourself in a perscpicuous mode. 

  I think, there is only o=
ne thing that the Glosa should introduce: the use of endings for marking th=
e word class (for example: -o, -a, -e, -i or other solution). This kind of =
using words will not change the basic concept of the Glosa on the multi-sen=
se of the words. 

  Even the dictionaries need not be changed, because the=
 users will know how to make an another part of speech from that given in t=
heir dictionaries. It will be enough to be changed the last character of th=
e word in compliance with the message that you want to give, for making una=
mbiguous it's meaning.

  This feature would improve in an extraordinary ma=
nner the easilly intelligible of the texts and would make unnecessary the u=
se of special expressions. As me this changing is worth to be made. This wo=
uld be the only one use of endings in the Glosa.


Plu kardia saluta,

Lasl=
o

