---
authorName: Mario Montijo
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Mario Montijo&quot; &lt;mariomontijo@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGMxYjZqdCthMWlxQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 375
msgSnippet: TRISTI REALI Fe solo in domi U-ci es u histori de bi ju-fe, Tatjana (de
  6 anua), e Sabrina (de 4 anua). Mu es plu sibi. Bi es ple de energi e dina. Sabrina
nextInTime: 376
nextInTopic: 404
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1077484989'
prevInTime: 374
prevInTopic: 0
profile: mariomontijo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: rMmOoM7xhFf4G258WjJI9KsLTFs60O09cPO2Yi-7YfCjh_utlqwvC-oV72XVHigzKdvL3UCnqpgZzWpjoYVdtWVUxO61k4CEc8noaqVJXw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: Plu histori de u Bio (2)
topicId: 375
userId: 146050109
---

TRISTI REALI

Fe solo in domi

U-ci es u histori de bi ju-fe, Tatjana (de 6=
 anua), e Sabrina (de 4 
anua). Mu es plu sibi. Bi es ple de energi e dina.=
 

Sabrina face pan-ra ko fo mega vultu; one reali pote lekto epi fe 
facia=
. Sed plus, fe hedo turba-se e fe es fo obstina. Tatjana have 
plu stela in=
 fe oku. Fe reali fu gene u kali e fu rupti multi kardia.

Mu matri proto e=
rgo a u 3:00 (noktu), a 7:00 (mana). Sed mu patri ki 
ab u domi a u 5:00, s=
o mu es solo tem pene bi horo. Sed klu, qo mu 
plu parenta es in domi..., m=
u pote ludi e vide televidi holo noktu =96e 
matri e patri es dormi!=96.

M=
i holo tem pa du divina ka mu es freqe ge-fatiga e mu ne pote 
koncentra =
=96Mi pensi ke id es u logika=96. 

Pa setimana mi pa akusti a u gina in u =
infanti-horti pa questio 
Tatjana, qo fe pa du face de noktu extra...

Mi n=
e volu kogita qo sio acide...

Nara ex KATHRIN

martin_bode@...
htt=
p://www.angelfire.com/hi3/divager/sadr.html

HOME ALONE 

This is the story=
 about two girls, Tatjana (6yo) and Sabrina (4yo). 
They are sisters. Both =
are full 
of energy and power. Sabrina does everything with so much express=
ion, 
you can really read in her 
face. But she also loves to sulk and she'=
s pretty stubborn. Tatjana 
has stars in her eyes. She will be a real beaut=
y and will breake a 
lot of hearts... 

Their mom starts to work at 3:00 (i=
n the night) until 7:00 (morning). 
But their dad leaves the 
house at 5:00=
, so they are alone for at least two hours. But even 
when their parents ar=
e at home... they 
can play or watch tv the whole night - and mom and dad a=
re sleeping! 

I always was wondering why they both are often tired and can=
't 
concentrate - I think that's the 
answer. Last week I've heard that a w=
oman in the kindergarten asked 
Tatjana what she's doing 
outside at night.=
.. 

I don't wanna think about what could happen... 



