---
authorName: "T\xF3th L\xE1szl\xF3"
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: =?iso-8859-2?q?T=F3th=20L=E1szl=F3=20?= &lt;leslie_toth@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAwLjA0MDIyMzA4NDQwMzA2MTE1MzQyNjVAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 382
msgSnippet: Saluta Igor, The big problem is that the people generally can t ride a
  horse. They either fall to the one side of the horse, or  fall to the another side
  of
nextInTime: 383
nextInTopic: 384
numMessagesInTopic: 21
postDate: '1077522243'
prevInTime: 381
prevInTopic: 381
profile: leslie_toth
replyTo: LIST
senderId: VYY5NppmV2yj2TwWWM8KedoKuKT9MHDQerLqT5QTivaohe-IDhFUypM1O94fHi1wrE2qxl9cQEhktSTyKnr91MEWiPPiTuWalMNDGgB1Dw6IaqLePPCo5WN_9TENf9DeC44J6_CNKzCk
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Too much plainness'
topicId: 361
userId: 21276468
---


Saluta Igor,


  The big problem is that the people generally can't ride a=
 horse. They either fall to the one side of the horse, or  fall to the anot=
her side of it. Only a few people can find the middle of the way.

  I'm al=
so a speaker of Esperanto. I have no problem to express me even in a very s=
ophisticated mode using that language. Nevertheless I think that Esp. make =
abuse of ending-formatives. The Esp texts you can read many times slowlier =
than the English texts. I have made lots of experiments concerning this aff=
air. Spite of my good knowlidge of Esp. I don't really like it. I'd like to=
 get a language that combines the best features of the experimented planned=
 languages.
  And I think, it would be easier to make the best language sta=
rting from the Glosa as starting from Esp.
Esp has already a very big amoun=
t of fiction and a great number of old lag users, who don't want any change=
s while they are living, but the Glosa scarcely has users and fiction, so i=
t's possibility to be improved is incomparable to the Esp. 

  My first rea=
ction was to introduce possesive pronouns. But really the Glosa need not it=
, if it used word class endings. But at this point, you have fallen to the =
other side of the horse, and protested against to introduce of all kind of =
endings like in Esp. But nobody were speaking about that. I proposed only e=
ndings for the part of speech and nothing more.

  Sorry for the capital le=
tters, I only have put a quotation from an earlier message of Robin:

"DON'=
T OVERHEAT THE LISTENER'S BRAIN BY FORCING THEM INTO PLAYING
MIND-GAMES WIT=
H EVERY WORD. "

  The above opinion is valid even in case of a too plainne=
ss expressing.
So, either the phrase is too formatived by endings, or it is=
 too plainness, that don't helps the understanding.

  Even in the English =
some words are marked by word class endings. It helps you very much on the =
speedy undestanding. It could give you a larger manner of expressing. It co=
uld give you to operate more unimpeded when speaking or writing, while it d=
amaged nothing.

There is not only balack and white, but there is also the =
gray.


Plu saluta

Laslo 
