---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAyLjA0MDIyMjE5MTM0NzkyNTY1MzkzMDZAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDIyMzE3MjQxOS4wMjgyMzk3MEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 387
msgSnippet: Saluta Mi Plu Amika, ... ***  Not too sure of your precise meaning, but
  I think you are saying there ought to be one clearcut way of indicating the possessive.
nextInTime: 388
nextInTopic: 388
numMessagesInTopic: 21
postDate: '1077521093'
prevInTime: 386
prevInTopic: 384
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: QvNYNY5-1Jr4z1QH_FADEB6zIR0Jsf6GEDmXfcyKDjg5SngOKGZiv7hpjbVF23bDfWatHziTUWM8q3Xcc1Hfs_AwIrh6Q2GYcf2VuOSS8cto7HQKLg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Too much plainness'
topicId: 361
userId: 147970330
---

Saluta Mi Plu Amika,

At 07:13 PM 2/22/04 +0100, Laslo grafo:
>Saluta Robin,
> >      I don't know how the ancient Greeks or Romans denoted the possessive,
> > but that could be a fruitful line of enquiry.
>
>   You know, all the ethnic languages uses plenty of expressions. That is 
> one of the the reasons that they are very difficult to be learnt.
>   You don't be surprized if you experience that an ethnic language don't 
> use one or another gramatical solution. This is because the ethnic 
> languages without exception are wheeling by expressions. And this is just 
> what we should avoid in a "bridge-language".
***  Not too sure of your precise meaning, but I think you are saying there 
ought to be one clearcut way of indicating the possessive.
      EG  Mi habe Jon bola.       I have Jon's ball.    (Not satisfactory 
to you & poss. others)

             Mi habe u bola de Jon.    I have the ball of Jon   (Very French)

             Mi habe Jon-a bola.#       I have Jon's ball.  (Your 
suggestion; not accepted Glosa)


>   (I don't know how to say "car" and "telephone"):
***  telefono     telephone
       vagona      car
       ago           (to) drive

>/Mi "car" "telephone" domi./  => "My car phones to the home." [It is an 
>intelligent, computerised car!]
***  Mi vagona telefono a mi domi.

       Mi vagona id-se telefono mi domi.    ( If the idea of computerised 
car & home are odd.)

>  or  "I am driving while I am making a call to the home." or "I am 
> phoning to the home during my driving."  -  In many languages the verb 
> "to car"  functions, and it does mean "to drive". That's not a sleng! 
> There are plenty of nouns that functions in the same manner in several 
> languages.
***  Iso mi du ago, mi telefono a mi domi.

      Mi du ago tem mi dice per telefono a mi domi.

   ago  = (to) drive, (to) car.


>   All in all, I think that the main problem is how to interpret the 
> meaning of the words, and how to express yourself in a perscpicuous mode.
***  Could be so.  My feeling is that one attempts to wrap one's mind 
around the feel for the language, and one's tongue around the words.

       Read the sentence you write aloud, hear what you have said, while 
running your eyes over the words.  The original meaning should pop back 
into your head as you hear yourself reading the words.
       If the words you wrote do not revive the original ly intended 
meaning, then recast the sentence.


>   I think, there is only one thing that the Glosa should introduce: the 
> use of endings for marking the word class (for example: -o, -a, -e, -i or 
> other solution). This kind of using words will not change the basic 
> concept of the Glosa on the multi-sense of the words.
***  Well, here we have a language in which the basic concept is that each 
word can be used , unchanged, for any part of speech.  So, the 
terminal-vowel marker trick will completely change all that.
      Maybe such markers are not your normal inflections .. that operate 
within a VERB, or give alternative meanings to different versions of a 
NOUN, but they are within the family of
  inflections, like '-ly' (adjective --> adverb), '-ing' (verb --> gerund 
[=noun]), and '-ed' (verb --> participle [=adjective]) - in English.

>   Even the dictionaries need not be changed, because the users will know 
> how to make an another part of speech from that given in their 
> dictionaries. It will be enough to be changed the last character of the 
> word in compliance with the message that you want to give, for making 
> unambiguous it's meaning.
***  1. I appreciate that you seek unambiguous communication.
       2. I guess that you come from a language tradition in which the 
words all carry Part-Of-Speech markers.
       3. In the English language tradition, we can find five inflections 
.. maybe a few more if we include "go/went", "is/am/be/was", etc  But Glosa 
has ?overcome? the inflections within a word, and between Parts-Of-Speech, 
as well.

      So in the Glosa dictionaries, which, for reasons of economy are only 
"word-translation" dictionaries, we find words, which really can be 
described as "concepts."   And, yes, a system of vowel-marker endings could 
be imposed to indicate the P-O-S usage of the word at the time in that 
particular part of the sentence, but then the language produced would no 
longer be Glosa.  Back in 1977, when i first met Ron, he was playing with 
the idea of having "-o" and "-a" endings, and I can't remember properly 
now, but I think '-a' was to have been for NOUNS and '-o' was to have been 
for everything else.  I recall his abandoning the idea.  Then, when people 
reported that the y disliked some of the terminal vowels, for a short time, 
he declared that any vowel that a person liked the sound of, would be 
acceptable: he "floated" the vowel endings.  This idea proved too 
distracting to last for long.  Then we settled down to the present terminal 
vowels which are more or less related to the gforms of the Greek or Latin 
roots from which the words are derived.
      Ron was a bit ahead of his time, because he thou


>   This feature would improve in an extraordinary manner the easilly 
> intelligible of the texts and would make unnecessary the use of special 
> expressions. As me this changing is worth to be made. This would be the 
> only one use of endings in the Glosa.
>
>
>Plu kardia saluta,
>
>Laslo
>
>
>
>Yahoo! Groups Links
>
>
>
>



