---
authorName: Manuel Valderrama
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Manuel Valderrama &lt;cp46tan@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDQwMjIyMTkzNTIwWjE4MTM4NS0yMDI3NisxMDczN0BrcHMyLnRlc3Qub25ldC5wbD4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQwM0E5RkEzLjMwMzAyMDRAaG90cG9wLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDIwMDQwMjIyMTkzNTIwWjE4MTM4NS0yMDI3NisxMDczN0BrcHMyLnRlc3Qub25ldC5wbD4=
layout: email
msgId: 388
msgSnippet: 'Saluta a glosa-pe. Well, in theory you can use any Glosa word either
  as a noun, verb, adjetive, adverb and whatever you want. But this perfect simmetry
  is '
nextInTime: 389
nextInTopic: 389
numMessagesInTopic: 21
postDate: '1077583779'
prevInTime: 387
prevInTopic: 387
profile: cp46tan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: L7Aym5agSPF4TM_84HfAZRXiY5TB5k48pAe36uocjb2Plw-e22jEjYzFaboIWR9IYgrXfZaAIPYCrtz4csUSRAm3SaB0cMZ_CoduldA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Too much plainness'
topicId: 361
userId: 65375870
---

Saluta a glosa-pe.

Well, in theory you can use any Glosa word either as a =
noun, verb, 
adjetive, adverb and whatever you want. But this perfect simme=
try is 
broken due to the fact that words have some "core" meaning, that is=
 not 
always suitable for all the functions a word can take. So, it is easy=
 to 
use "matri" as a noun or adjective, but it is somewhat difficult, at 
=
least for my limited mind, to use it as a verb. What would this verb 
mean?=
 "to be a mother", "to cause someone to become mother"?


Igor Wasilewski p=
a grafo:

>Saluta a plu lista-pe,
>
>T=F3th L=E1szl=F3 pa grafo:
>  
>
>>Th=
ose expressions you have to learn in advance, otherwise you will be incapab=
le of using, understanding the Glosa. 
>>
>>"Mi dona auxi a mu".  -  dona a=
uxi =3D>  it is an expression that you have to learn by all means, otherwis=
e you will not be able to use the Glosa.
>>
>>"dice u petitio" - to ask for=
 something =3D>  it is an expression
>>"dice u qestio" - to ask about somet=
hing =3D>  it is an another expression
>>
>>Otherwise you could get an anot=
her meaning of the words, like: 
>>
>>"dice u petitio" - to say a petition =
(not: to ask for sg.)
>>"dice u qestio" - to say a question (not to ask abo=
ut sg. )
>>    
>>
>
>Thanks for your comment. As far as the expressions "d=
ona auxi", "dice u petitio" or "dice u qestio" are concerned, I think they =
are not any additional study material to memorize. I use the words "dona" o=
r "dice" only according to logic, not because it is decided so. You can use=
 a word "akti" instead of "dona" without any special change of its meaning.=

>  
>

I agree with Igor. The phrase "mi dona auxi a tu" is not idiomatic.=
 The 
difference with "mi auxi tu" is the same that there is between the 
e=
speranto phrases "mi donas helpon al vi" and "mi helpas vin". None of 
them=
 is idiomatic, I think.

>  
>
>>I think, there is only one thing that the =
Glosa should introduce: the >use of endings for marking the word class (for=
 example: -o, -a, -e, -i >or other solution). This kind of using words will=
 not change the basic >concept of the Glosa on the multi-sense of the words=
. 
>>    
>>

In that case you would not have Glosa anymore, but a wholly d=
ifferent 
language. It is true that is easy to construct ambiguous sentence=
s in 
Glosa, but this is also true for almost any natural language (and 
al=
though I have not played enough with esperanto, I think that is also 
true =
for constructed ones, maybe with the exception of logical languages 
like L=
ojban, Loglan et al).

Anyway you can brake the ambiguity if you wish to do=
 so. One can do 
changes like "u matri de mi" instead of "mi matri", and so=
.

> 
>It seems that you can see such a structure in Sasxsek language.
>
>O=
ne more thing: I have spent some time comparing the International Auxiliary=
 Languages which may be regarded as isolating and I see they are really ver=
y few. For example, Lingua Franca Nova, a quite popular IAL, has many isola=
ting features but it maintains the letter "s" to form the plural, it also u=
ses special suffixes to form the active and passive participles and it has =
some other useful affixes.
>I also took a closer look at a very interesting=
 language Sona and I see it is only partially isolating, with a very sophis=
ticated agglutinative system. In such comparison Glosa seems to be complete=
ly isolating, so it is a quite unique IAL. The question is not which gramma=
r structure is the best. Every IAL has its advantages. An interesting quest=
ion here is why the IALs like Glosa are so few. 
>
>  
>

Appart form Glosa=
, I know another auxlang which could be regarded as 
isolating, and that is=
 "Latino sine Flexione". But, as it is the case 
with Lingua Franca Nova, i=
t maintains things like the "s" for the 
plural. I myself find particulary =
interesting this language. I know a 
bit of latin, and for my delight and g=
reat surprise, when I discovered 
the book about "Latino sine Flexione" wri=
tten in "Latino sine Flexione", 
I could read it with more ease than Latin!=
 (another language that 
exploits the parallelism with some natural languag=
e is slovio, but since 
I don't speak any slavic language I cannot say noth=
ing about its ease).

But when I discovered Glosa, I realised that "Latino =
sine Flexione" what 
just a joke compared with a pure isolating language li=
ke Glosa (the same 
kind of joke as English compared to Glosa, more or less=
). We all should 
take too seriously Ron Clark's advice "play with Glosa". =
In my opinion 
Glosa is, in some way, a unbounded language we have not play=
ed enough with.

As an easy example. Let's suppose that my cat is here and =
my dog there. 
It could be possible to say in Glosa something like: "mi-ci =
feli e mi-la 
kani". For us, first and not very experienced Glosa speaker t=
his 
sentence could seem incorrect, but I think that for a "native" Glosa 
=
speaker it could seem natural. If you have things like "u-ci, u-la, 
pan-ci=
, pan-la", why not "mi-ci"? In the same way, if we have "ci -> 
u-ci, mi ->=
 u-mi", why not "u-co"?

Another example is the great richness of the "-co"=
 constructions. This 
is probably one of the best ideas behind Glosa. The m=
ost difficult 
problem common to all indoeuropean languages are the complex=
 
subordination schemes, and the great variety of subordination patterns. 
=
In the indoeuropean language one can construct with ease very complex 
and =
long sentences (just read Cicero, Proust or Kant either on their own 
langu=
ages or in translations to other indoeuropean languages; to express 
comple=
x thought they use really complex sentences). I don't know the 
case of Hun=
garian, Finnish or Basque, three non indoeuropean languages. 
They are very=
 difficult languages, but mainly for other reasons.
On the other side you h=
ave the semitic languages, that prefer 
coordination patrons over subordina=
tion. You can note this in almost any 
translation of the old testament (an=
d also in the new, because, although 
they were written in Greek, their wri=
ters had a strong semitic 
background). If I'm not wrong, chinese have litt=
le subordination too. In 
this sense Esperanto is too much indoeuropean may=
be. Glosa with the 
"-co" derivatives provides almost and endless way of co=
mbining sentences 
and of chaining thoughts, and a way by far more easy tha=
n the 
indoeuropean subordination patterns nightmare!

I would also like to=
 speak about the verbal system of Glosa. In all 
indoeuropean languages you=
 have both aspectual (perfect, imperfect and 
sometimes even aorist) and te=
mporal differentation (past, present and 
future tenses). One of the two se=
ries is indeed not needed. The semitic 
languages like classical arabic and=
 biblical hebrew use only aspect, and 
have no tenses in the normal sense. =
The just have perfect and imperfect. 
Modern hebrew, although being semitic=
, use the imperfect with future 
tense value, the active present participle=
 with present tense value, and 
the perfect with past tense value. This is =
the case of a language that 
only make tense distinction. The option of onl=
y having pasr, present and 
future is a really wise option in Glosa, and th=
at is also a reason why I 
consider that the use of "pra" could be dangerou=
s; you now introduce 
aspectual differentations in Glosa.

Anyway, the verb=
al system of Glosa, although simple, is powerful. "pa" e 
"fu" can be combi=
ned for creating things like "an pa fu ki ab, kron tu 
pa apari". If you pu=
t the other particles (sio, nu, du, more, proto...), 
auxiliar verbs and ve=
rboids, the result is an easy and powerful verb 
system, capable of express=
ing its own nuances.

So I think that its pure isolating nature is a great =
advantage for 
Glosa. Maybe other day I would talk more about the issues ab=
ove.


>Plu saluta,
>
>Igor Wasilewski
>
>
>  
>

Plu saluta,
Manuel.


