---
authorName: "T\xF3th L\xE1szl\xF3"
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: =?iso-8859-2?q?T=F3th=20L=E1szl=F3=20?= &lt;leslie_toth@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PERQRy5XSU4uNDAwLjA0MDIyNDE0NTI0NTUzMDY0NzkyMTRAZHJvdHBvc3RhLmh1Pg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 390
msgSnippet: Saluta Robin, ... Unfortunatelly you gave me too simple phrazes. It wasn
  t about what you have given. Your simple phrases need not explanation. But it was
nextInTime: 391
nextInTopic: 393
numMessagesInTopic: 21
postDate: '1077630765'
prevInTime: 389
prevInTopic: 389
profile: leslie_toth
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Op-edTnqFpIlTnJCUzR460IidQzxAkwmtmesBiUcnJB4uUzNErdSU_cofZOAHG8czSlEo-LnSm064v8pfHctxezGJZZuPOjLWxfdCrX0VPMDlbqP3zGPtktgu8RJA14ZcbMEznf0G5uX
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Too much plainness'
topicId: 361
userId: 21276468
---

Saluta Robin,

> ***  Not too sure of your precise meaning, but I think you=
 are saying there 
> ought to be one clearcut way of indicating the possess=
ive.
>       EG  Mi habe Jon bola.       I have Jon's ball.    (Not satisfa=
ctory 
> to you & poss. others) 
>              Mi habe u bola de Jon.    I=
 have the ball of Jon   (Very
> French)
>              Mi habe Jon-a bola.#=
       I have Jon's ball.  (Your 
> suggestion; not accepted Glosa)

Unfort=
unatelly you gave me too simple phrazes.
It wasn't about what you have give=
n.
Your simple phrases need not explanation.
But it was about: "Mi" + word1=
 + word2 +word3. -  without "habe"; without "de"; without "a"! 

> ***  tel=
efono     telephone
>        vagona      car
>        ago           (to) dr=
ive
> ***  Mi vagona telefono a mi domi.
> 
>        Mi vagona id-se telefo=
no mi domi.    ( If the idea of computerised 
> car & home are odd.)
 > ***=
  Iso mi du ago, mi telefono a mi domi.
> 
>       Mi du ago tem mi dice pe=
r telefono a mi domi.
> 
>    ago  =3D (to) drive, (to) car.

It's wery kin=
d of you, that you gave subsequently an another more intelligible example o=
f how to express what one has to got to say.
But you see, the users of the =
Glosa aren't compelled to do that. This is the problem. The rules of the Gl=
osa permit you to be neglectful of making phrases. And there will always be=
 persons who will make abuse of this feature.

I don't have the right to sa=
y:
"What it means?"
but:
"What does it means?"

So I can make defective sen=
tences, that are difficult to understand, but I can't make gramatical corre=
ct sentences that lead to misunderstanding.

So, there are two main affairs=
:
On the one hand, when sy writes gramatical incorrect (this is the best th=
ing, because you can find easily the errors), and on the other hand, when t=
he rules allow you to be shallow (this is the worst thing). This last case =
leads to misunderstanding.
 
> So, the 
> terminal-vowel marker trick will =
completely change all that.

You know it well that it's not all true. The w=
ord root will remain unchanged.

>       Maybe such markers are not your no=
rmal inflections .. that operate 
> within a VERB, or give alternative mean=
ings to different versions of a 
> NOUN, but they are within the family of
=
>   inflections, like '-ly' (adjective --> adverb), '-ing' (verb --> gerund=
 
> [=3Dnoun]), and '-ed' (verb --> participle [=3Dadjective]) - in English=
.

The word class answers to certain question: "what is it?"; how does it w=
ork?; how does it look like?; what to make?, and this system is enough to g=
uide you.

>  And, yes, a system of vowel-marker endings could 
> be impose=
d to indicate the P-O-S usage of the word at the time in that 
> particular=
 part of the sentence, but then the language produced would no 
> longer be=
 Glosa. 

This attitude is well known by me. Even the fanatical fundamental=
ists of Esp gave me the same answer, when I proposed them to substitute the=
 accusative endings by some word-order. They also told me that the language=
 would no longer be Esp. And I answered: So what? What is wrong in it? 
Of =
course, the diesel-engine is no longer a steam-engine. This is the way of t=
he evolution.

And finally, we have to decide: what kind of language we wan=
t to have? 
Who that language have to serve to? Should it serve to the expe=
rts or to the large layers of the people?
For example, Esp became so sophis=
ticated, that there is hardly anyone non-expert, who is mastering that lang=
uage well. It became a language for experts, and not for the most of the pe=
ople. It became a language for a small layer of users.


Plu saluta,

Laslo=




