---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDIyNDEwMDAzNC4wMWZiYzAzMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 397
msgSnippet: Saluta, Continuing the comments on Laslo s excessive plain-ness reply.
  - - - - - - - - - - - ... **&&**     Teaching people to READ Glosa would not appear
  to
nextInTime: 398
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1077592787'
prevInTime: 396
prevInTopic: 0
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: JCBHG1bJF6u940HLOqaSTy8zrLJii0fV_mZS8akkZ2t8bSnH3C4fQqwhZ0e_G_DUAQ2a4sfmOmOmMmNOq5e8F0c0yXG9mafBMDCSFZCl8l48x8pbMA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Fwd: Re: [glosalist] Re: Too much plainness -Tail End'
topicId: 397
userId: 147970330
---

Saluta,
    Continuing the comments on Laslo's "excessive plain-ness" reply.
  - - - - - - - - - - -
>Date: Mon, 23 Feb 2004 18:24:53 +1100
>To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
>From: Robin Gaskell <drought-breaker@...>
>Subject: Re: [glosalist] Re: Too much plainness
>
>Saluta Mi Plu Amika,
>
>At 07:13 PM 2/22/04 +0100, Laslo grafo:
>>Saluta Robin,
>> >      I don't know how the ancient Greeks or Romans denoted the 
>> possessive,
>> > but that could be a fruitful line of enquiry.

>**##**     Ron was a bit ahead of his time, because he thought that human 
>culture had arrived at the stage where conceptual thinking was general 
>amongst forward-thinking people.  He really thought the world was ready 
>for Glosa.  My understanding, after having pondered it for a long time, is 
>that for Glosa to be spoken well and written well calls upon the intuitive 
>language ability of the person speaking or writing.  If the language is 
>written/spoken well, then the reader/listener will have no problem in 
>understanding the communication, and should not feel there is any 
>ambiguity.   However, Glosa appears not to be easy to speak/write well, 
>because only some of the members of this Mailing List feel comfortable 
>with using it as a "Syntax-based Non-inflecting" language.
   **&&**     Teaching people to READ Glosa would not appear to be the 
problem, even though many will learn to write it well, by osmosis, as a 
result of reading well-written Glosa.  The major problem that has emerged 
is in understanding the essence of the language, and in using this 
knowledge to WRITE it syntactically correctly, and unambiguously.  I 
believe both are possible ... but it may take some deeper scholarship in 
syntax than that provided by a school education ... and worse, it might 
require a reasonable insight into the functioning of
language - in our own brains, not in the text books.
**$$**        This, though I am possibly being unkind, might explain the 
seeking, by some people, for a regularised communication medium where 
everything is on paper and none of the essentials of communication are 
required from the mind of the reader: a perfectly machine-handleable language.
                  The very fact that this hypothesis was tried in 1972 with 
the DLT (Distributed Language Translation) project using Esperanto as the 
basis of its pivot language, and didn't quite get completed, allows me to 
question basing a pivot/bridge language project on a highly inflected, 
designed language.
                   Ron Clark used to say that people forgot that the 
listener makes up half of the communication process, and comes half-way 
towards the speaker during a verbal exchange.  Thus the speaker doesn't 
have to say everything in complete detail - nor can he - and, also, he 
assumes much knowledge to be already in the mind of the listener.  If 
syntactic structures, vocabulary and context are not in the mind of the 
listener, then it matters not if the speaker uses perfect diction.


>>(Laslo)   This feature (terminal vowels donoting Part-of-Speech) would 
>>improve in an extraordinary manner the easilly intelligible of the texts 
>>and would make unnecessary the use of special expressions. As me this 
>>changing is worth to be made. This would be the only one use of endings 
>>in the Glosa.
***  As already argued, this would produce a 'bastard' language - a 
syntax-based language with terminal, P-o-S marker vowels.
      This would defeat the advantage of having unchanging spelling, and 
would cause the reader and writer to concentrate on the mechanics of Parts 
of Speech, than on the Flow of Language, which is syntax-oriented.

      On the question of 'what P-o-S is that?' I suggest that everyone does 
a newspaper reading analysis.  While in England, and doing some coaching in 
English usage with schoolchildren, I developed the 'underline the verb' 
exercise.
Say, in a short newspaper article, you underline each actual verb in red, 
then each noun in green.  After thinking you've got that right, then you 
move on the adjectives in blue and adverbs in mauve.
      Decisions, decisions!  The reporters, in their economy with words, 
and their heavy use of elision and compounding, do not make it an easy 
exercise: they do NOT write well-turned sentences.  There are many words 
that just cannot be pinned down to one simple Part-of-Speech, colour, or 
"terminal vowel."  And people pay to be able to read such printed language??
      I am old enough to have done Parsing and Analysis in primary school 
in backward Queensland.  That was where I learnt my syntax.  Nowadays, 
grammar and syntax are hardly mentioned in English-speaking schools, and I 
suspect that the situation is also just as bad in most other cultures.

      However, in Glosa, after we get over the humps of formal grammar, 
vocabulary, syntax and semantics, then we are free to romp off into the 
green fields of 'flow', rhythm and 'feel.'  While I am still more at home 
with English than with Glosa, I believe that, in Glosa, with its low 
loading of items at the basic end of this "language skill continuum", one 
is able to progress more quickly into concentrating on the more enjoyable, 
more creative elements at the spectrum's upper end.
      Although the two sentences above will make no sense to the 
uncreative, and will NOT be supported in any Linguist's book, it is still a 
statement of the joy that can be gained through producing effective 
communication.

      If, in the past, you have been seeking the key to writing Glosa, and 
have not found it, perhaps you have been looking in the wrong place.  Aim 
to 'think in Glosa.'  ^Go with the flow^ of language, and discover, that in 
Glosa, this is in the syntax.

     Ron said there was one grammagical rule in Glosa: "a word is modified 
by its antecedent.  This gives rise to Head Final phrase structure, in 
which the words build up in importance starting with basically unimportant 
words on the left, and words of increasing significance in the middle, 
ending in the main substantive word in the phrase - whether it is 
functioning as a VERB [in a Verb phrase] or a NOUN [in a noun phrase].
    Simple Subject-Verb-Object sentences also follow this rule because each 
word is modified by the preceding word.

    He   --->   hit    --->    him.

  We start with 'he.'  It is the 'he' who modifies , or gives, the 'hit.'

     Who, or what, does the 'hit' modify?  My guess is that the 'hit' 
modifies the 'him.'

      So, in very rough, but reasonably understandable linguistics, Ron 
Clark's ONLY grammatical rule of Glosa gives rise to the rest of the 
language's rule-of-thumb, flying-by-the-seat-of -the-pants style of grammar.

      Because Glosa is morphological_grammar_neutral, I believe that it has 
a very good chance of functioning as a very suitable bridge 
language.  However, some languages do say things that Glosa is not yet 
geared up to do, so, either Glosa would need to be added to, to allow some 
of these meanings, or small markings could be used by the human translator, 
or mechanically added by the computer doing the translation to transfer 
such meanings from the source language to the target language - if this has 
the capacity to express the subtlety.

Saluta,

Robin 



