---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDQwMjIyMjIyNDI0WjE1MDA1Ny04MzgrMTMzMTkzQGtwczIudGVzdC5vbmV0LnBsPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDIyNDE1MjUxMy4wMWZjZDkzMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 398
msgSnippet: 'Saluta Holo-pe, ... ***  I agree with Igor s comments.  The -a for possessives
  is a possibility: in writing it would be distinctive, in having  the hyphon;'
nextInTime: 399
nextInTopic: 401
numMessagesInTopic: 21
postDate: '1077597186'
prevInTime: 397
prevInTopic: 393
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 9CiPRGVJ2S9cWJ_pG68P3dcoY9X6BKGExsdnQucd9WNKW_ozS5_6IlWQpiPAJfXuv85y0x6ALZOyipWiRiiSLJSEaNR4sgLBkWMdgXwLo2acFy-xMg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist]  Too much plainness'
topicId: 361
userId: 147970330
---

Saluta Holo-pe,

At 11:24 PM 2/22/04 +0100, Igor grafo:

>Saluta a Laslo,
>
>If I am right, your suggestion is to use the possessive pronouns by adding 
>a letter, for example "a" to the personal pronouns (mi-a, tu-a, and so on) 
>and to mark the parts of speech by similar letters at the end of the word.
>Of course, you can do it if you want. But then appears a question: why not 
>add some special suffixes denoting tenses to the verbs and eliminate the 
>particles "pa", "fu" or "sio"? Why not make some further changes? The 
>question is what for. There are lots of very good IALs that function this 
>way - Esperanto, Ido, Volapuk, Interlingua etc. Why change Glosa if you 
>can use another IAL with a better result? I am an Esperanto speaker and 
>consider it an excellent language. I do not need to change Glosa to make 
>it another Esperanto, because Esperanto which already exists is 
>sufficient. I think that if you start changing Glosa, it will not be Glosa 
>anymore. Besides, there is always a question, how far one can reform a 
>language not being the author herself/himself. If Glosa changes some 
>aspects officially, the Glosa speakers will use the new Glosa and I will 
>have nothing against it. Let's ask the other Glosa speakers ;)
***  I agree with Igor's comments.  The "-a" for possessives is a 
possibility: in writing it would be distinctive, in having  the hyphon; in 
speech it should stand out.  However the assumed possessive with no mark 
seems to work, but I am a little unsatisfied with it.

>You have shown the following example:
>(I don't know how to say "car" and "telephone"):
>/Mi "car" "telephone" domi./ => "My car phones to the home." [It is an
>intelligent, computerised car!] or "I am driving while I am making a call to
>the home." or "I am phoning to the home during my driving." - In many
>languages the verb "to car" functions, and it does mean "to drive". That's not
>a sleng! There are plenty of nouns that functions in the same manner in 
>several
>languages.
>
>These four words in a sentence are not Glosa, because you still need  some 
>necessary particles. "Mi vagona telefono a domi" would indeed mean: "My 
>car is telephoning home". However if you want to say: "I am driving while 
>I am making call home" you can say "Mi du vagona...", where "du" clearly 
>indicates that "vagona" becomes a verb. And finally, if you want to form 
>an active participle, you must not forget about the particle "tem" - "Mi 
>du vagona tem telefono a domi". "Tem" added to a word makes it a participle.
>If you want to say: "I am telephoning home during my driving", you say: 
>"Mi du telefono a domi tem du vagona".
>Although Glosa has polifunctional words, you must not forget about the use 
>of the particles, which are necessary.

***  Yes, I'd say that Igor has the feel for Glosa.

Saluta,

Robin



