---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDQwMjIyMTkzNTIwWjE4MTM4NS0yMDI3NisxMDczN0BrcHMyLnRlc3Qub25ldC5wbD4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDIyOTE5MTkyOC4wMWZkMWFkMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 402
msgSnippet: '... ***  It seems to be a normal part of Glosa to use %give help%  %say
  a question% etc, rather than just use the bare word ... as we often do in English.
  I'
nextInTime: 403
nextInTopic: 405
numMessagesInTopic: 21
postDate: '1078050189'
prevInTime: 401
prevInTopic: 401
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: dPZwnBwoocw4W14gwd5s5Sxothd1yWCq4H7RiiR0QyDUYXNzXBPmXkTfmiBEYdbYMy7uJZraO-Z_orfliAycNwYIeoMu_HPAOjFu8xykP3ipL8gGPw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Too much plainnnnnnessss'
topicId: 361
userId: 147970330
---

At 08:35 PM 2/22/04 +0100, Igor Wasilewski pa grafo:

>Saluta a plu lista-p=
e,
>
>T=F3th L=E1szl=F3 pa grafo:
> >Those expressions you have to learn in=
 advance, otherwise you will be 
> incapable of using, understanding the Gl=
osa.
> >
> >"Mi dona auxi a mu".  -  dona auxi =3D>  it is an expression th=
at you have 
> to learn by all means, otherwise you will not be able to use=
 the Glosa.
> >
 >      ....
 >
>Thanks for your comment. As far as the exp=
ressions "dona auxi", "dice u 
>petitio" or "dice u qestio" are concerned, =
I think they are not any 
>additional study material to memorize. I use the=
 words "dona" or "dice" 
>only according to logic, not because it is decide=
d so. You can use a word 
>"akti" instead of "dona" without any special cha=
nge of its meaning.
***  It seems to be a normal part of Glosa to use %give=
 help%  %say a 
question% etc, rather than just use the bare word ... as we=
 often do in 
English.
      I think Igor has the feel for the language her=
e.  I use the thought 
of sculpting in words.

      The difference is betw=
een the use of language in the 'abstract' by 
ccomparison with using a 'con=
crete' form of speech.
      Chinese, possibly the closest language to Glos=
a in sentence 
construction, uses "unchanging characters" whereas Glosa has=
 the 
"unchanging words."
      And most linguists will hail Chinese as a l=
anguage capable of great 
poetry because of its subtlety and the more or le=
ss abstract way its poets 
use the language.
       However all Chinese peo=
ple are not poets, and the Chinese person in 
the street learns his usage a=
s a series of 'concrete' acts, but does so by 
memorising beautiful poetry =
off by heart.
       Similarly, Glosa can be treated as a rule-based commun=
ication 
medium, which it really is not;
or as a language that is sculpture=
d from thought ... more or less 
directly.  This second approach to the usa=
ge of Glosa I call the "abstract" 
usage of language.

>You also wrote:
>
>=
 >I think, there is only one thing that the Glosa should introduce: 
> the =
>use of endings for marking the word class (for example: -o, -a, -e, 
> -i =
>or other solution). This kind of using words will not change the 
> basic =
>concept of the Glosa on the multi-sense of the words.
>
>It seems that you=
 can see such a structure in Sasxsek language.
***  Sadly I have no time le=
ft in this life to study the wide range of 
designed languages, though abou=
t twenty years ago I did attempt it.  Having 
viewed the field, I decided t=
hat Glosa was the shape of the future, or, at 
least, very close to it.

>O=
ne more thing: I have spent some time comparing the International 
>Auxilia=
ry Languages which may be regarded as isolating and I see they are 
>really=
 very few. For example, Lingua Franca Nova, a quite popular IAL, has 
>many=
 isolating features but it maintains the letter "s" to form the 
>plural, i=
t also uses special suffixes to form the active and passive 
>participles a=
nd it has some other useful affixes.
>I also took a closer look at a very i=
nteresting language Sona and I see it 
>is only partially isolating, with a=
 very sophisticated agglutinative 
>system. In such comparison Glosa seems =
to be completely isolating, so it 
>is a quite unique IAL. The question is =
not which grammar structure is the 
>best. Every IAL has its advantages. An=
 interesting question here is why 
>the IALs like Glosa are so few.
***  Th=
is matter of the rarity of Glosa-like languages is intriguing.
           T=
here is a label for them; I invented it years ago:   languages 
with syntax=
-based grammar.

           I believe there are a few possible explanations=
 for this rarity, 
but they all revolve around the concept of EVOLUTION.
  =
  1. Is civilisation possibly evolving?
    2. Could language usage on the =
Planet possibly be evolving?
    3. Does the ^survival of the fittest^ prin=
ciple apply to the elements 
of language?
    4. Do languages evolve?
    5=
. Can we say that some languages are more evolved than others?
    6. Can w=
e say that some designed languages are more evolved than others?
    7. If =
anything does, what might constitute the
evolutionary characteristics of la=
nguage?

    I know what my answer is to all of the above, but for fear of =
upsetting 
people, who might suspect that their national, or their native, =
language is 
more primitive than other languages, I do not mention it here.=


     While the possibility of the evolution of language should be a 
scie=
ntific question, because of all of the elements of nationality and 
culture=
 associated with language, most Linguists adopt the safe position 
and quot=
e the Politically Correct statement that no language is better than 
any ot=
her.

      Trying hard not to say "what rubbish," I would call upon Englis=
h and 
Chinese to enter the witness-box.
      Chinese has had the benefit =
of millenia over which to evolve, and 
once had a complex morphological gra=
mmar.  The language that remains has a 
grammar that is fundamentally synta=
x-based.  There is an absolute minimum 
of words that are without semantic =
meaning but which are retained for 
reasons of grammar.
       English got =
the pressure-cooker treatment: with a large number of 
linguistic invasions=
, there was a rapid succession of linguistic flavours 
imposed on the islan=
d and its population, and being an ornery lot, the 
Britons picked and chos=
e from among the modes of usage that passed through 
their culture.  Some p=
eople, including me, would say that the linguistic 
features that had survi=
val value were retained, while those with an 
unnecessary complexity were a=
llowed to fall into disuse.
       So English, which, of the European natio=
nal languages, has the 
smallest number of inflections, has had what amount=
s to greatest admixture 
of inputs, and thus, the greatest pressure for "su=
rvival of the fittest" of 
the numerous imposed linguistic elements.
      =
 Both of my witnesses, for greatly different, but undeniably 
evolutionary,=
 reasons are languages that have very little morphological 
grammar.

     =
  Back to the question.
       When people muse on the creation of planned =
language, most look at 
what is presently in use - often in their own cultu=
re - and improve upon 
it.  Some, of course,
  go high tech, and decide tha=
t in future we should all be communicating 
likre computers - in blips.
   =
    So, without upsetting too many people, I can say that the vast 
majorit=
y of language creators looked to see how the majority of national 
language=
s were constructed.  The big difference with Glosa, is that instead 
of loo=
king towards the past, or even at the present, its authors projected 
langu=
age use into the future.

       This is where the story gets painful, not =
for me but for my 
readers.  Ron and Wendy took a fairly promising language=
 design - that of 
Interglossa - and melded it with a weather eye on the se=
emingly highly 
evolved languages, English and Chinese, and gradually chang=
ed Interglossa 
into Glossa, and then Glosa, streamlining it all the while =
- pushing their 
creation through an even more extreme evolutionary process=
 than that which 
English had undergone.

       The trouble with Glosa is =
that the world is not ready for it yet: it 
is the shape of a human/compute=
r interface, and has all of the elements of 
an idealised communication med=
ium.  However, it lacks the element of 
^redundancy^ by which a number of l=
inguistic elements combine to ensure 
that meaning does not rely on only a =
single sound or letter.  This could be 
a genuine fault.  Also, there is th=
e possibility that the human mind does 
carry an inbuilt tendency towards i=
nflection; whether this is a genuine 
psychological need, or simply a pleas=
ant, warm fuzzy feeling remains to be 
seen.

       The biggest criticism =
of Glosa, and also possibly the real 
explanation of the rarity of its ling=
uistic specification, is that creative 
people speak better Glosa than less=
 creative ones.  To be good at Glosa, it 
seems that a person needs a reaso=
nable imagination.  This possibly comes 
with Glosa being more of a 'concep=
t-based' language, than a 
'concrete-based' one.

        Who would create =
a designed language, and attempt to give it to the 
world, without providin=
g a grammar book?  Ron Clark did!
        He thought that the human race ha=
d enough savvy to listen to their 
own thoughts, and organise their spoken/=
written language in accordance with 
these.  Do we have to wait another cen=
tury or two to see if his faith in 
humanity's innate ability to communicat=
e was was well-founded, or not?

'Fraid I won't be around to find out,

Rob=
in Gaskell 



