---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGMxYjNqdStpdWczQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDIyOTIxMzE0MC4wMWZkMjU5MEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 403
msgSnippet: '... Bene venu Sebastien, Tu uti de England-lingua es boni.  Mi klari
  logi qod tu grafo. [Your use of English is good. I clearly understand what you write.]
  U'
nextInTime: 404
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1078052916'
prevInTime: 402
prevInTopic: 386
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: dcQNpWgYuaCUygUtL6NxQ6x2z0QE2LdTiIDTMMQTnxSQHvw7uAX2PEtE2ixuYgZerTaNkrhO7eKa105UPOHZHuFQ0dTCWmxTdANI5HKpK0UK_i7uQA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] help'
topicId: 374
userId: 147970330
---

At 08:31 PM 2/22/04 +0000, Sebastien pa grafo:

>hello
>I am french and I am looking for french speakers who could teach me
>glosa by email or mail.
>
>I would like to know to if the famous Shakespeare's "to be or not to
>be" was translated in Glosa and if yes, where I can find it.
>
>I hope answers. Thank you.
>
>Sebastien from France.
>
>P.S: I am sorry for my bad English
Bene venu Sebastien,
    Tu uti de England-lingua es boni.  Mi klari logi qod tu grafo.
   [Your use of English is good. I clearly understand what you write.]

    U tristi nova es ke na habe solo u pusi de Glosa in Francais-lingua.
   [The sad news is that we have only a little of Glosa in French.]

    Place skope u reti-lo http://www.glosa.org  Tu fu detecti informatio de 
Glosa epi id.
   [Please look at the website, "   "    "      "     You will find 
information about Glosa on it.]

    Mi habe u spe ke plu-pe; qi habe Francais-lingua iso mu sekunda lingua 
pote don auxi a tu.
   [I hope  that people who have French as their second language can help you.]

    Mo idea: kron tu tenta grafo uti Glosa, loca u hetero lingua infra 
id.  Pro tu, u-ci hetero lingua fu es Francais-lingua, e plura de na fu 
logi sufici de tu Francais-lingua te logi u semani de tu Glosa.
   [One idea: when you try to write using Glosa, put another language under 
it.  For you this other language will be French, and several of us will 
understand sufficient of your French to understand the meaning of your Glosa.]

     Koncerne W. Shakespeare, mi vo tenta id.

               Es alo no es: u-la es u qestio.
      glos. (be or not be that is the question)
            [To be or not to be: that is the question.]

Ko posi ma poesi:-
                 Eso alo no-eso.  U-la eqa u qestio.
      glos. (being or non-being that equals the question)   <direct word 
for word translation>

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell
              [Being or not being.  That is the question.] 



