---
authorName: Robin Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGMyNWs2ZitnOG4zQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDUuMi4wLjkuMC4yMDA0MDMwODE2MTIwOS4wMjgyYzhkMEBwYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 417
msgSnippet: '... ***  Nearly that bad,but people are sorted out by psychology: Memory
  - a word for everything, can cope with multiple inflections on the end of one word '
nextInTime: 418
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1078725093'
prevInTime: 416
prevInTopic: 412
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: q6F-B69E8LkEbVH53zSUtcadbJRvt8V53WKt2FIxUkJZOqjpxvhTj5G6Py3tbishscWqz5J2Ai2_PLC6HNVEchJIYjxRFVx3jfoVlDTT_z4xYhos3w
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] about artificial languages...'
topicId: 412
userId: 147970330
---

At 09:54 PM 3/3/04 +0000, you wrote:

>I've read your messages for mounths. I've also read messages from
>othere mailing list whose topic was Esperanto,Glosa, IDO, Interlingua
>etc...
>In my opinion (correcet me if I'm wrong)every group thiks to be the best
>and, at the same time, expect that their language will replace all the
>national languages.

***  Nearly that bad,but people are sorted out by psychology:
          Memory - a word for everything, can cope with multiple 
inflections on the end of one word
          Conceptual - not so worried about spelling, like to use language 
to express ideas
          Literal - enjoy clearly defined vocabularies and well-laid out 
Grammars: generally can't progress to using a language until all "T's" 
crossed and "I's" dotted.
          Intuitive - don't worry about grammar much more likely to follow 
syntax
          Systematic - want standardisation and much regularity
          Balanced view -   ???   I do not know of many people in the middle
          Communicators - see language simply as a medium of communication 
the more sreamlined the better
          Spiritual - see meaning in sounds and generally respect ancient, 
well-mouldered languages
          Machine-men - consider that a computer-amenable language should 
be spoken

>What about creating a new language which sinthesize at least 3 or 4
>artificial languages?
>Every languages has its own vocabulary and, for example, if you write
>in Interlingua you are not alllowed to use words of Esperanto, Ido and
>so on. Is that so wrong and impossible?

***  In the long run Rafferty's Rules might apply, but many people want a 
simple vocabulary where there is usually only one word for each thing, 
action ... or concept.  So, I cannot see the world's rationalisers 
accepting such a free-for-all.  IF we all had unlimited memories, then the 
use of a whole range of words would enrichour experience greatly, and the 
person whose choice of words was best (poetically) then they would be the 
ones whose writing and spoken words were read and listened to most.
       But, in the real world, limitations of time and mental capacity 
restrict us to an average of, say, 2000 to 4000 words for general 
conversation.  So, most of us are stuck with communicating in a fairly 
narrow vocabulary and only within our cultural "community" [=group with 
whom we can commune].

>Why can't we create a language where everybody is free to choose the
>words  she/he wants to use among the artificial languages which
>already exist?

***  I call this the Ron Clark Paradox.
       Ron actually thought we were a lot more creative than we really are, 
and assumed that people would readily grade up to using language as freely 
as you describe.  But we are not all that creative, after all, and would 
rather be given a language to use, speaking and writing much like painting 
by numbers.

>Why can't we create a language where speakers of other languages are
>wellcome even if they continue to use their words?

***  A sense of superiority based on an underlying sense of inferiority.

>Obviously we should make a compatibility plan of the grammar of this
>new language.

***  The meaning of this sentence is not clear.
       Another aspect of the Ron Clark Paradox was that Ron thought people 
could learn a language by observation, and so he did not want to restrict 
imagination by imposing a ready-made grammar.  It didn't quite work.
      Although Laslo wanted to form a middle grammar with some freedom of 
word order - introduced by the use of terminal vowels that indicated a 
word's function, I am still not sure if such melding of grammatical 
qualities is possible, or if the grammatical characteristics are mutually 
exclusive.

>Whois interested in this project, pleas contact me at this email
>adress: zcat71@...

***  It is very courageous of you to try, and I do not know how you plan to 
test the validity of a language you produce.  I Have insufficient time 
left, this lifetime, to even consider mixing my brain patterns to help in 
the development work.
       However, I do offer to act as a trouble-shooter in telling what I 
think are the weaknesses of language constructs that you and a group of 
courageous adventurers might produce.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell 



