---
authorName: sydpidd@aol.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: sydpidd@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDE0OC4zMGJjMWZmZC4yZTRkMTg0NkBhb2wuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 464
msgSnippet: a nu , linglo du habe u fo pusi hetero de u glosa , solo u pusi ma sistema
  ci e la . plu seque ra fu habe u ma mega muta . plu-ci du ne es u kritici de glosa
nextInTime: 465
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1092337222'
prevInTime: 463
prevInTopic: 0
profile: sydpidd1926
replyTo: LIST
senderId: wUnH_bwxhztMGkllJ-_kEFyYp4LLg16gttoOHnV77iemX6EBVrXFjH5ie4nsqBR6Z6J6Nj76
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist]  linglo from glosa 04811'
topicId: 464
userId: 137587403
---

a nu , linglo du habe u fo pusi hetero de u glosa , solo u pusi ma sistema ci 
e la . plu seque ra fu habe u ma mega muta . plu-ci du ne es u kritici de 
glosa sed plu muta pro u mi profito alo u oligo demo homo mi . mi sio volu te 
gene dice a mi de u proto de u verba-grupo , quod du es u id funktio in u frase . 
que id du es u akti-verbi verba-grupo alo nima-verba . u glosa du akti u-ci - 
sed ... . na du habe u "pa" e u "fu" sed nuli klari pro u nu akti-verbi . u 
linglo du proposi te uti "du" e "nu" . plu-ci introduce verba fu gene mega uti 
pro u klari struktura . po plu-ci verba , glosa du loka u kefa verba a u fini 
, po  plu auxi verba . u-ci du signifi ke na du nece  memo mega e du sorta id 
panto ma tardi . id du habe posi u facili ma te memo du verba introduce e u 
verba kefa seque in u loka bi e po-co plu verba auxi in u loka gravi mei . 

So far , Linglo is very little different from Glosa, a little tidyihg up here 
and there only. The next things will be more radical. These are not a 
criticism of glosa but adjustments for my benefit and no doubt for a few other 
people. I should like to be told at the beginning of a phrase, what its function in 
the sentence is. Is it a verb phrase or noun phrase?
Glosa does this - but ... . We have "pa" and "fu" but nothing definite for 
the present tense. Linglo proposes to use "du" or "nu" . These introductory 
words will be much used for clarity of structure. After these words, Glosa puts 
the head word at the end, after any modifiers. this means we  must remember much 
and sort it all later. Linglo reverses this order.
It is possibly easier to remember the introducing word followed by the head 
and any modifiers in a less important position.
====


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


