---
authorName: sydpidd@aol.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: sydpidd@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGQ5LjFkZjVmMzI0LjJmMWMyMTEzQGFvbC5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 484
msgSnippet: penite de u seqe, mi pa face pan ra ad in u fo mal intrika ........ My
  vote  goes to Glosa .... but ....... It seems to me that Glosa, like light, has
  a
nextInTime: 485
nextInTopic: 504
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1105905427'
prevInTime: 483
prevInTopic: 483
profile: sydpidd1926
replyTo: LIST
senderId: kVAC1ECbVQytyfbct98SmIJhMfC5ZZvFnAGCZQ1jmetT_bAmN6Wi9UM6zXwIKxLr0rOjHGzA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Frigi-tem Nekto (artikla)'
topicId: 480
userId: 137587403
---

penite de u seqe, mi pa face pan ra ad in u fo mal intrika ........



My vote  goes to Glosa .... but .......

It seems to me that Glosa, like light, has a spectrum, from ultra literary to 
infra dignitatem! We could call them "glosa-alti" and "glosa-baso". 
It also seems so in other languages and that the mormal use of a languages is 
developed by fluent speakers who are prepared to accept a large number of 
irregularities and ilogicalities of grammar in their usage. 
 
  Anyone who starts to learn one of these languages finds it unnecessarily 
difficult. Having problems wth mental confusions and memory, I wish to explore 
glosa-baso for the benefit of myself, anyone who needs urgent help in a foreign 
country, people who are not gifted with language learning and who need to 
communicate with people of language very different from their own.

The basis of glosa-baso is very like the present glosa. The 3 normal 
divisions of a sentence are:- subject noun phrase, verb phrase and object section.

The verb phrase has an introductory word such as "pa" and "fu". also it tells 
the tense, past and future. These words tell me that the subject phrase has 
ended and the verb phrase begun. In Glosa, I find that a sentence in the past 
or future is much easier to understand than one in the present because usually 
the fluent speakers omit any introducer in the present.

The noun phrase is introduced by "u" or "plu", singular and plural followed 
by its head, negative and modifiers.

"Plu" the/a:- We have a noun phrase, it is the subject and is plural I should 
like all VPs to begin with "pa", "fu", "du", "nu" or "sio" and that these 
words not be used as separate words for any other purpose. The second word would 
usually be the head word of the phrase and be followed by the negative 
particle and modifiers.    
. 

u voti de mi du ki a u glosa . 

id du feno a mi ke glosa, homo foto, du habe u spektru . 
 ex  ultra literary a  infra dignitatem! na pa_pote voci mu "glosa-alti" e  
"glosa-baso". id pluso du feno so in plu lingua hetero e ke ge u uti norma de 
plu lingua du evolve ex plu pe qi du loqi flu  

e qi du cepti u nume mega de plu uniformi ne e plu logika ne de gramatika in 
u uti ex mu .  

 uno-pe qi du proto te gene_ski mo de plu-ci lingua du detekti mu du habe u 
no-facili .
ko plu problema ko u konfusi menta e ko u memo , mi du volu te stude u  
glosa-baso pro u profito de mi e uno-pe qi du nece subito u auxi in u landa xeno,
 plu demo qi du habe ne u doro ko u gene_ski lingua e qi du nece te komunika 
ko plu demo de lingua fo hetero  ex mu  .
 
u basi de u  glosa-baso du es homo fo a u glosa nu-tem . 
plu tri divide norma de u frase du es:- frase nima-verba tema, frase 
akti-verbi e mero objecti . 

u frase akti-verbi du habe u verba introduce tali ka "pa" e "fu".
plu-ci verba du dice dice a mi ke u frase tema pa fini e u frase akti-verbi 
pa proto,  
pluso id du dice u tem akti-verbi,  pa-tem e fu-tem . 
in u glosa, mi du detekti ke u frase in u  pa-tem alo fu-tem du es facili ma 
mega te logi sed more, u loqi persona flu du omite uno verba introduce in u 
nu-tem .
mi sio volu panto plu frase akti-verbi te proto ko  "pa",  "fu",  "du",  "nu" 
alo "sio" e ke ge plu-ci verba du uti ka plu verba separa pro uno buta  
hetero . 

u verba bi sio es more u verba kefa de u frase e ge du seqe ex u partikula  
"ne" e plu deskribe  . 

so:- plu gina du vora u sito .
ge u frase nima-verba du introduce ex  "u" alo "plu", solo_mo e plura . ge 
seqe ex u kefa de id, "ne" e plu deskribe .
 so :-  plu gina  du  vora u  sito . 


 "plu" the/a:- na du habe u frase nima-verb, id du es u tema e es ge plura 
"gina" woman:- second word is head phrase, it is plural
 "gina" femina gina  :- u verba bi du es u frase kefa  , id du es plura 
"du":- introduces verb phrase, we now have the complete subject, "the women"
"vora" eat:- head word, we have the complete verb phrase
 *"du":-* du introduce u frase akti-verbi  *,* na   du habe u tema  kompleti  
*,*  *"the*  *women"* 
 
"u":- a noun phrase, singular, after the verb
 *"u":-* u frase nima-verba  *,* solo_mo  *,* po  u akti-verbi 
"sito" food:-head word
 *"sito"*  *food:-* verba kefa 

the women are eating the food.
que plu gina pa vora u sito .
"que"introduces a question sentence
 *"que"* du introduce u frase qestio 
did the women eat the food?
question mark not needed.
ge u  marka   qestio du nece  ne . 
ge u sito pa vora per plu gina
"ge" tells us that the word order is changed:- object, verb, subject
 *"ge"* du dice a na ke u ordina verba pa muta  *:-*  *object*  *,* 
akti-verbi  *,* tema 
the food was eaten by the women
mi du es ge famina
here the "ge" introduces an object section and also separates it from the 
verb
ci  *,* u  *"ge"* du introduce u mero  *object* e pluso du  separa id  ex u 
akti-verbi . 
u gina du ski ke mi du es ge famina ..........
i am hungry
"I" needs no introducing word because it takes the place of a noun phrase 
singular
 *"I"* du nece  ne u verba introduce ka id du prende u loka de u frase 
nima-verba . 
plu gina du amo u sito de mi
mi = i or me, de mi= of me= my 
the women like my food
in g-baso, the beginnings of phrases are all clearly marked and the most 
important concept is close to the beginning.
in  *g-baso*  *,* ge plu proto de plu frase   panto du  marka   klari  e u 
kogita  importa maxi du es klude a u proto . 
sid


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


