---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDFlMy4zNTVjYTQ2Ny4yZjQ0YmFmOEBhb2wuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDIxOTIxMDg1OS4wMjhlMTEwMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDFlMy4zNTVjYTQ2Ny4yZjQ0YmFmOEBhb2wuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 501
msgSnippet: '... Hi Sid and Friends, I did get the idea that there was very little
  rain in the Sudan, and also, that there was a food which grew quickly on the small,'
nextInTime: 502
nextInTopic: 503
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1108811317'
prevInTime: 500
prevInTopic: 500
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: mMmRTWCcT_hCq7VmxlEaytbSEFjKMVsoQCjMvCUlseVd_NJtUwwPP8TaCCrCrWYz8_onIoP9UEbkdvH4HgPQvt0E8QbQYXTkaMOHb2RNNwP7ro13Zbq-uHOSbOVNTBcy
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] itdg'
topicId: 500
userId: 147970330
---

At 02:04 AM 2/17/05, Sid Pidd grafo:


>u seqe sio interese Robin .
>  Darfur es mo de plu maxi sika mero de Sudan - so sika ke plu_kron u 
> pluvi du
>kade pro solo bi horo in u holo anua . U-la es solo 40mm de pluvi te ultima
>panto u anua (in u UK, na du gene u medio de 1,200mm) . Plu famili in  Sudan
>du akti panto-ra mu es pote, te kresce sati sito te vora sed minus pluvi, id
>du marce e du morta - e plu persona du pluso morta .
>Sed uno-ra du acide. plu pusi longi kumu de geo du feno . Mu du kurva trans u
>landa e du morfo plu kresce - e intra u singu kurva, plu karpe du kresce,
>kloro e ko sani, mega sati te dona_sito_a u famili u  panto anua . Plu-ci 
>longi
>geo kumu du gene voci plu pusi-plati-lo e singu du morfo u kresce . U simpli
>forma ke du tena u fo-gravi aqa e du pulsa u famina apo .
>  vi du  pote te auxi hetero  famili te stru mo ko ITDG .
>
>
>[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]

Hi Sid and Friends,
    I did get the idea that there was very little rain in the Sudan, and 
also, that there was a food which grew quickly on the small, annual rainfall.

    But I don't know if the food is a fish or a plant, such as sea-weed.

    Who, or what, is ITDG?   I would say that in Glosa 'redundancy' ought 
to be increased, and should either be added to the sentence to ensure that 
the meaning is clear; or it can be given as extra description.

    It is still my understanding that metaphor ought to be avoided in 
Glosa, unless it is very clear that a 'figure of speech' is intended.  The 
sentence I found a bit difficult was,

    U simpli forma ke du tena u fo-gravi aqa e du pulsa u famina apo .

[the simple form that is holding the very important water and is pushing 
hunger away]

Possibly:

    U-ci simpli bio-forma tena u fo gravi aqa, e permite plu persona te 
evita famina.

  [this simple life-form holds (the) very important water, and  allows the 
people to avoid hunger]

   I thought that "push hunger away" was a bit too high-flown and poetic 
for the normal, descriptive use of a bridge language.

Saluta,

Robin                                                                        


