---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDUwNDI5MTExOTE5LkdBMjE0MThAdmljZXJ2ZXphLmhvbWV1bml4Lm5ldD4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDUwNjAwMDUzMy4wMjlkMjc0MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDIwMDUwNDI5MTExOTE5LkdBMjE0MThAdmljZXJ2ZXphLmhvbWV1bml4Lm5ldD4=
layout: email
msgId: 519
msgSnippet: Hi Lluis, Best wishes with your University studies. You are right in saying
  Glosa s grammar is similar to English. But it is misleading to say Glosa s grammar
nextInTime: 520
nextInTopic: 520
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1115305122'
prevInTime: 518
prevInTopic: 518
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: PisrzPRFbYucqVsThsOg6Jbqby9INK2dz9TMhWLZFIyS08KsUP4XuH67CNql5SPWn_-SpUGBaSgtl8GWyfiYBPxtNA4NKJW7_tlD9GZWJmSkhyD35pGfx9t-rEh4J2iV
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] dictd dictionary'
topicId: 511
userId: 147970330
---

Hi Lluis,
     Best wishes with your University studies.
     You are right=
 in saying Glosa's grammar is similar to English.

     But it is misleadin=
g to say Glosa's grammar is too close to that of 
English.

     The simila=
rity with English is important because the sentence 
structure of English a=
llows people to write both simply and logically.  The 
differences between =
the grammars of English and Glosa are also
very important, because Glosa ke=
eps the logicality, but avoids what I call 
"sloppy" English structures.

 =
    For people who have English as their first language, this distinction 
=
is often overlooked ... when they attempt to write in Glosa, but continue 
=
to think in English!

     If you take an English sentence, and 'transliter=
ate' it into Glosa (IE 
translate word for word), you will not necessarily =
get a syntactically 
correct Glosa sentence.  However, were you to use the =
opposite process, and 
transliterate a well-written Glosa sentence into Eng=
lish, you would end up 
with a passable,and fairly readily understood Engli=
sh sentence.

     You could say Glosa's sentence structure is a sub-set of=
 the sentence 
structure of English... the strictly syntactically correct s=
ub-set of it.

     An ki domi.       is bad Glosa on first sight; it shoul=
d be,       An 
ki ad an domi.
   [he go(es) 
home]                        =
                                     [he 
go(es) to his home]

One does NOT=
 "go" a home: 'go' is not strictly transitive; it takes an 
indirect object=
 (EG 'to home'), and so needs the preposition - in this 
case, "to" - to sa=
tisfy the rules of syntax.

     However, while people use elipsis in Engli=
sh all the time, leaving out 
words all over the place, they can do the sam=
e with Glosa, turning full 
sentences into abbreviated forms.
     But, the=
 sentences you start off with should be syntactically correct, 
resulting i=
n a "vernacular" form of Glosa from which one can imagine, and 
readily rep=
lace, the missing words, to fill out the *brevi* form to regain 
the fully =
syntactic sentence.

    Thus, ~An ki  *  *  domi.~

un-elides to, ~An ki a=
d an domi.~

    Glosa avoids non-literal language (mainly metaphor and idi=
om) and 
^calls a spade a spade.^  You can guess why: figures of speech var=
y from 
culture to culture.

    English has about five inflections; Glosa =
has none.  Thus we can say 
Glosa's grammar is "Syntax-based."   It uses He=
ad final phrase 
structure.  In plain language, the most important word in =
a phrase comes last!
     In a Noun Phrase, the noun is last, and is preced=
ed by the modifiers, 
if any, with the *noun flag* ('determinant' or 'artic=
le' in English) if 
necessary, coming first.

     I did write a Glosa Gram=
mar, and bits of it are still on the Internet 
in different places.

     C=
ongratulations on writing a dictd dictionary, I must visit your site.

Salu=
ta ,

Robin Gaskell



At 09:19 PM 4/29/05, you wrote:
>Hi!
>
>I attempted =
to learn glosa some time ago, but I haven't had enough time (or
>enough int=
erest to learn it. :)
>
>Anyway, I've done a dictd-version of the dictionar=
y glosa-english. You can
>search in it using the web interface:
>http://vic=
erveza.homeunix.net/~viric//cgi-bin/Dict
>There select the "glosa-english" =
dictionary.
>
>If someone is interested in the files needed for a own dictd=
-server, ask, and
>I'll send (it's about 200kb, I think).
>
>I think in the=
 future I'll write a web page, where the dictd-files will be
>downloadable.=
 But I'm in a hurry now... university!
>
>- I'll keep on with glosa. By now=
 I think the grammar is too-similar with
>   English; and there aren't good=
 explanations of it. That's what made me 
> loose
>   some interest. ("Tio =
min bremsis. Mi ne scias pli bone tion diri angle :)"
>
>By now, enjoy the =
web search engine. It's quite simple.. don't try to hack it,
>you may succe=
ss ;)
>
>--
>+--------------------------------------------+----------------=
------+
>| Llu=EDs Batlle i Rossell                     |Tel.Olot. 972 26 7=
1 24|
>| Membre de [s3os] (www.s3os.net)            |    BCN.  93 16 22 680=
|
>| viric@... / ICQ# 9658637            |    M=F2b.  654 08 67 35|
=
>| web: http://vicerveza.homeunix.net/~viric/ | Santa Pau / Catalunya|
>+--=
------------------------------------------+----------------------+
>
>
>
>
=
>Yahoo! Groups Links
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>__________ NOD32 1.1085 (20050501) In=
formation __________
>
>This message was checked by NOD32 antivirus system.=

>http://www.nod32.com


