---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDBhNjIwMWM1NjJmMCRlMGE2YWQ2MCRkMDRmZmVhOUBhY2VycHpkdjJhbWVsej4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDUzMDIxMjYyMy4wMmE2ZDE2MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDBhNjIwMWM1NjJmMCRlMGE2YWQ2MCRkMDRmZmVhOUBhY2VycHpkdjJhbWVsej4=
layout: email
msgId: 529
msgSnippet: '... Karo Stefo, Glosa is a suitable language for International Auxiliary
  use, however I can see your dilemma. While any language ought to be usable for folksy'
nextInTime: 530
nextInTopic: 530
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1117459854'
prevInTime: 528
prevInTopic: 527
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: QBM_s1F_z_03fZqX77ieTuSsdFgr2CCYfQIaQlI0MRlEsb2X0xJ2ercEjViFeRTcrv_BFSd7ee_upMMNC5Pw9k9oQKwtWGkLLQuIRaDvJK9M-K1JiFDFycaRFXIfJuXq
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] plu, stress'
topicId: 527
userId: 147970330
---

At 05:18 AM 5/28/05, you wrote:
>Hello,
>Mi gene sko de Glosa, but I have already encountered difficulties / questions:
>"plu" seems to mean both "the" (plural), "the" (cathegory) and "the" (group).
>
>I like singers
>I like the singers
>I like the choir
>
>plu kanta-pe
>
>Btw, is the stress in "kanta-pe" on the first or the second "a"?
>
>Gratia,
>Stefo
Karo Stefo,
    Glosa is a suitable language for International Auxiliary use, however I 
can see your dilemma.
    While any language ought to be usable for folksy conversation, I'm 
sorry to say that Glosa is primarily designed for use as an interlingua of 
last resort when people have to communicate, but have no common medium for 
spoken communication.  This is not an apology: I try to set the scene for 
thinking in international.
    Although it seems unimaginable that people will possibly one day want 
to communicate across the language barrier,  it could follow some sort of 
social breakdown: Glosa could be used as a stop-gap medium, and spoken, or 
written, almost directly from the dictionary ... using basic syntax.

   So, Glosa can also be used as a "tourist" tongue, but it might take a 
little more effort than simply using polite, phrase-book 
communication.  All this is to say that Glosa is a language designed for 
basic communication: it avoids the use of metaphor, and does not work with 
national language idiom.  The hardest part of learning to use Glosa is 
putting the mind into 'low gear' to think in basic concepts, and 
accordingly use the appropriate word, rather than an approximate close fit.

   But I also like music, and think singing is great.

   Mi amo kanta.      -     I like [to sing/singing]
       .....   u kanta.   -       ....  [the song/the singing]   NB 'U' 
acts as a Noun marker, or the 'flag' to indicate a Noun Phrase.

       .....   plu kanta.  -     .... the songs   ( definitely in the 
region of plurality, here )

   Mi amo u kanta-pe.  -   I like the singer.   (music appreciation, or 
preference for the person)

    ......     plu kanta-pe.  -  I like [the (particular) singers/ singers 
(in general)]  ... <plural>

   Mi hedo audi kanta-pe.  -   I enjoy [to hear/hearing/listening to] 
singers   ... <' plu ' elided>
                                      --- This is a general statement, and 
implies all singers.
   Mi hedo audi plu kanta-pe.   -   I enjoy [hearing/listening to] (the) 
singers   ... softer, and unambiguous

   Mi amo u kanta-ra.  -  I like the [song-thing/song]
     ......    kanta-ra.   -    I like (the) song       < a bit bare: 
?general or particular?>

Choir.
    A choir is a group of singers.
    In Glosa a choir can be defined as   u kanta-pe-grega    -    a 
song-person group
    But it could be spelled out as    u grega de kanta-pe    -   a group of 
song-person(s)
         the 'PLU' can be elided; adding it would be un-necessary and 
possibly pedantic.

    Mi hedo kanta ko u kanta-grega.   -    I enjoy singing with the 
choir.    Common sense tells us that the one would be singing with a group 
of other people.   The rule is: use as many words as are needed for 
communication to be unambiguous.

   While I have been criticised for repeating Ron Clark's phrase "concept 
words" to describe Glosa's lexical items, it still makes sense to me.
   Folksy national languages and folksy auxiliary languages, like 
Esperanto, have a warm human feel about them, and have comfy usage.  Glosa, 
on the other hand, can be seen as a bit 'skeletal': the bones of language 
are showing through.

  - - - - - - -
Stress.
    Each Glosa word (and most are fairly short) has stress on the final 
syllable.
    Glosa does not have inflections that change the word - or a series of 
affixes that lengthen the word, and extend the meaning: it has particles 
which can be words in their own right, but which can be attached by hyphen 
to substantive words to change the category of meaning.

    Each word is pronounced with its own stressed final syllable.  [Hyphens 
are not sounded, as such, but their presence is heard - in the stress given 
to each element of a compound word.]
    An es u kanta-pe.   -  He is a singer.     Pron. kanta-pe  =  kAHntAH pAY

    eg.  pani-bo-pe    -   bread shop person  OR baker   Pron. 
pani-bo-pe  =  pAHnEE bOR pAY

   While speakers of English become used to the normal shortcuts in the 
language, and like its idiomatic and metaphorical usages, Glosa does not 
work this way.
    There is a reasonably precise way of using Glosa, and, while compound 
terms can be created using added particles - to give added meaning, there 
is also the possibility of developing eliptic forms by dropping out words 
that would be used for precision, but whose absence, in pedestrian 
language, would cause no ambiguity.
    eg.  Fe ki a fe domi.   -  She goes to her home.
           Fe ki domi.    -   She goes (to) home.      NB.  'KI' is not 
transitive
                                         'to go' a home is a nonsense.
           But, in English, this elided form is used all the time, and it 
can be used in Glosa, also - where precision is not necessary.
           It is my feeling that when learning Glosa, it is best to use the 
precise form of a sentence, and good syntax should be used.    Because the 
thing that holds Glosa together is its syntax (word order), then correct 
syntax is required, and the use of punctuation to indicate the phrasal and 
clausal structure is a part of that syntax.  This situation is described 
most easily by saying that Glosa has Syntax-based Grammar.

    Welcome to the weird world of language.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell



[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


