---
authorName: Christopher Marshall
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Christopher Marshall &lt;vaiaata@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGRiYzQ4N2YxYWVlODcxOTdkMzYyYTBiMDIxMjlkMjhlQGlodWcuY28ubno+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 531
msgSnippet: Greetings! In a week or so I m swapping a New Zealand winter for a Michigan
  summer to attend the second performance of my first Niuspi piece U Trau . On July
nextInTime: 532
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1119300102'
prevInTime: 530
prevInTopic: 0
profile: vaiaata
replyTo: LIST
senderId: hjZTcKLP9Jeqr8MM-fr0zup0bi-Jscx7FAf7ZYo-oAJ4gTaQOhQiZPu5YA8Bo5omg6kIRhVdtqNWMLbPdDaAM4-OPkMhiw8SY9qoNixKffg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: U Trau in Michigan
topicId: 531
userId: 538477
---


Greetings!

In a week or so I'm swapping a New Zealand winter for a Michig=
an summer 
to attend the second performance of my first Niuspi piece 'U Tra=
u'.

On July 3 at 7.30pm at the Blue Lake Arts Camp, Kent Krive will direct=
 
a band and choir of tutors and professionals in the following 
programme.=


Bagley - 'National Emblem March'
Dragon - 'America the Beautiful'
Schuman=
 - 'New England Triptych'
Grainger - 'Lincolnshire Posy'
Marshall - 'U Trau=
' (two wind bands and SSAATB choir)

If you are anywhere near Blue Lake MI =
on July 3, I will be there 
(courtesy of Mr Fulbright) and I would love to =
meet you.

The first performance of this piece went down very well indeed i=
n 
Leiden, Holland in March 2004. The bands and choir of nearly two 
hundre=
d international secondary school children were at first sceptical 
and then=
 (for the most part) very enthusiastic about singing a conlang 
text. There=
 was even a group of them formulating new Niuspi words and 
phrases - some =
of which were undoubtedly safer in Niuspi than in their 
original languages=
.

The sad thing for me is that Niuspi, which I had considered fairly 
stab=
le, has moved on. Niuspi is my first (and last) conlang, so a major 
shift =
like this came as a bit of a shock! 'U Trau' is now in an archaic 
form of =
the language. A few months ago I was in the middle of 
translating those re=
aders, the Babel text, and the Last Words when I 
suddenly came upon an 'ob=
vious' way to eradicate excess particles while 
leaving the Niuspi's isolat=
ing and largely monosyllabic nature intact; 
at the same time a simple mean=
s both to increase ease of pronunciation 
and the recognition factor. So no=
w everything is in limbo until I find 
enough time to develop these ideas.
=

Anyway for what it's worth, here's the text of 'U Trau' followed by a 
tra=
nslation:

U Trau

Mi pa hae u trau....
Mi pa trau ke Gaia pa bi u gja ple =
i zi au kla floa.
Mi pa trau ke Gaia pa bi mo nzio e u tou hua o le zi nzio=
pe.
Mi pa trau ke u hua pa bi u fmi, e au pe zi zbi; e ke zi ho e fe pa ge =

ksoi gua, smi duo flue o bvi.

Mi pa trau o muo i ke au gue pa pa sto, i k=
e u pae pa flo smi rio.
Mi pa trau o muo i ke pa ge bi u nui pro ca fae pe,=
 u hlai pro ca mau 
pe, u kfoa pro ca trie pe, au ge gi pro lau;
U muo i ke=
 ca pe pa hae u do, i ke u rai pa ge cea, i ke ca hua bio pa 
bi u ge zreo =
bju.

Mi pa trau ke Gaia pa bi u hau e au biole o le zi haupe.
Mi pa trau k=
e u tou hua pa zvea Gaia: o le klea kua, o le puo ea, o le 
no mbea beu, o =
le mzie.
Mi pa trau ke au griape pa crei u trea, au pcipe pa crei u mae; e =
ke u 
tou hua i ca lo pa po hea u kco o Gaia.

E mi pa vgae, e mi pa vi, e =
mi pa di:

A nu ski o Gaia nzie kco,
Vai nu kri u niu kco pro hua,
A nu kco=
 pro beu fu tai,
Pro zi sfia cie, zi mrea mae,
Pro lau e jua e spie e pae,
=
U fu tai ple i zi voe o zi kni,
U fu tai ple i zi trau.

Nu hae u trau.....=

_________________

The Dream

I had a dream....
I dreamt that the earth wa=
s a garden full of flowers of every colour.
I dreamt that the earth was one=
 nation and all humanity its citizens.
I dreamt that humankind was a family=
, and all people brothers and 
sisters; and that men and women were seen as=
 equal, like the two wings 
of a bird.

I dreamt of a world where all wars =
had ceased, where peace flowed like 
a river.
I dreamt of a world where the=
re was food for the hungry, healing for 
the sick, comfort for the sad, all=
 given out of love;
A world where everybody had a home, where wealth was sh=
ared, where each 
human life was a jewel to be treasured.

I dreamt that th=
e Earth was a house and all living things its tenants.
I dreamt that all hu=
manity cared for the earth, its clear water, its 
clean air, its incomparab=
le beauty, its mystery.
I dreamt that all farmers cherished the land, all f=
ishermen cherished 
the sea; and that all humanity everywhere could hear th=
e song of the 
earth.

And I woke, and I saw, and I said:

Let us learn the=
 earth's ancient song,
While we write a new song for humanity,
Let us sing =
for a beautiful future,
For sapphire skies and emerald seas,
For love and j=
oy and wisdom and peace,
A future full of the voices of children,
A future =
full of dreams.

We have a dream....
________________

All good wishes,

Ch=
ris Marshall
=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=
=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97=97
Christopher Marshall - composer
Email: vaiaata@=
ihug.co.nz
Internet: http://www.vaiaata.com
Phone: +64 9 360-4957, Fax: +64=
 9 360-4958
Address: 1/131 Williamson Avenue, Grey Lynn, Auckland 1002=A0=
=A0=A0=A0=A0=A0
	New Zealand


[Non-text portions of this message have been=
 removed]


