---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQyRDNEN0IxLjYwMjA4MDlATUFHUk9VUC5SVT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDcxMzE1NTgwOS4wMmFiYmE5MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDIwMDUwNzA5MTIwMjQ3LjI0NjIxLnFtYWlsQHdlYjI2MzA1Lm1haWwudWtsLnlhaG9vLmNvbT4gPDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDcxMjIxMDUxMS4wMmFhODllMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4gPDQyRDNEN0IxLjYwMjA4MDlATUFHUk9VUC5SVT4=
layout: email
msgId: 546
msgSnippet: '... Hello Friends, Sorry all for making assumptions. I hark back to the
  early days of Glosa when I used to visit Ron Clark and Wendy Ashby when they were
  in a'
nextInTime: 547
nextInTopic: 547
numMessagesInTopic: 27
postDate: '1121236327'
prevInTime: 545
prevInTopic: 545
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: DX3mnJBhJyhCtwP5H3iWiwxEhk1DW7lSYEscgnOwfPG_hqXDe7BV6x-h95SI66uvodblJwEp81btQCcBKXRYY0D0YpMNPg3I5fiCcBpFibMkLmJCeFXHUKy9DKV9RP6j
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Sound &quot;U&quot; in Glosa'
topicId: 533
userId: 147970330
---

At 12:46 AM 7/13/05, Konstantin pa grafo:
>pardon, Robin, what linguas are you speaking in? especially i'm speaking 
>about
>conlangs.
>
>Robin Fairbridge Gaskell wrote:
> > Think so,
> >       I once had a Greek and a Latin dictionary handy to check such 
> questions.
> >
> >       Pretty sure I checked out ~mu~, and I seem to recall there was 
> even a
> > Latin "mu".
> >

Hello Friends,
    Sorry all for making assumptions.
    I hark back to the early days of Glosa when I used to visit Ron Clark 
and Wendy Ashby when they were in a caravan not far from where I lived in 
Christchurch, Dorset.
    Ron was working on the whiteboard amd deriving vocabulary when I first 
met him ... around the 1985 mark.  Glosa being designed then as the 
international language for science, it was founded on the Classical 
languages from which science derived its nomenclature: Greek and Latin.
    The theory was that you could have a Greek-based word and a Latin-based 
word in Glosa to allow for variety, and to avoid unpleasant repetition.  It 
didn't quite work out that way: there were too many Greek synonyms in the 
"Glosa 6000" dictionary; the dictionary was only a word-translation list, 
and so, lacked some fine-tuning of the lexicon; and some people demanded 
only one word per lexical item -- to reduce both the learning load and the 
strain on memory.
    When deriving vocab., Ron had a stack of national language dictionaries 
fanned out on his desk to check the commonality of the words he chose from 
the Greek and Latin dictionaries.
    After arriving back in Australia, I used the Classical dictionaries to 
check the expanded dictionary items when the GID (Glosa Internet 
Dictionary) was created on the Net.  For instance, ~uti~ covered "use" (to 
use; the use), but I could find no trace of a Glosa word to cover the 
concept of "employ" (to employ; employment), so I set about deriving a 
lexeme.  By looking into the Latin dictionary I came across something that 
allowed me to choose ~util~.

    Many years ago, somebody else questioned the use of ~mu~; I recall 
checking it out, and finding the Latin word from which it was derived.

    I trust that this explanation does not put me as far underwater in the 
deep end as you had first thought me to be.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell 


