---
authorName: "Llu\xEDs Batlle"
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: =?ISO-8859-1?Q?Llu=EDs_Batlle?= &lt;viriketo@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQ1MjE5ZmIwMDUwNzE0MjI1MTQ0MjgwMjE3QG1haWwuZ21haWwuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQ1MjE5ZmIwMDUwNzE0MjMwNDEyMzQxMmU3QG1haWwuZ21haWwuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: PEUxRHJSMmotMDAwNnNwLTAwLm4xOTU0LW1haWwtcnVAZjIxLm1haWwucnU+CSA8NDJEMjI5RTkuNjA5MDQwN0BNQUdST1VQLlJVPiA8MjAwNTA3MTExMjIwMTYuR0EzMDk0M0B2aWNlcnZlemE+CSA8MDVlODAxYzU4NjYzJGNhMWY3MjcwJGQwNGZmZWE5QGFjZXJwemR2MmFtZWx6PgkgPDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDcxMzE2NTAyOS4wMmFiNjFjMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4JIDw0MkQ1MDAxMi4zMDYwNzAxQE1BR1JPVVAuUlU+CSA8Ni4xLjIuMC4wLjIwMDUwNzE1MDE0MjI0LjA0MjQ0NTAwQHBvLnBhY2lmaWMubmV0LmF1PgkgPDQ1MjE5ZmIwMDUwNzE0MjI1MTQ0MjgwMjE3QG1haWwuZ21haWwuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 551
msgSnippet: '... I m not English native, sure.... and I can tell you that I consider
  English a Troya s horse . I m tired hearing people talking about its easyness! I'
nextInTime: 552
nextInTopic: 552
numMessagesInTopic: 27
postDate: '1121407499'
prevInTime: 550
prevInTopic: 550
profile: viriketo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: SZp149nSFHvbn2AFJvQY8bdZHZzn7LHWqc7caIDdYK-eAU2QI52q4LGc3Ywjg7uHL2CKOcNs-4e44DqHVlEyUfIbY8KIlhzItSebUqL6lBPVMvLSh7P51nrx7A
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: '[glosalist] Sound &quot;U&quot; in Glosa'
topicId: 533
userId: 230761562
---

On 7/14/05, Robin Fairbridge Gaskell <drought-breaker@...> wrote=
:
> At 09:50 PM 7/13/05, you wrote:
> >Except of flame, the only significic=
ant thought in that esperanto-thread
> >is that Llu=EDs offers to create an=
 alternative Glosa-branch 'cause of the
> >neat idea of the language and it=
s strange realization. The words "strange
> >realization" almost concern th=
e English-like grammar of Glosa.
> *** Nothing strange about Glosa's Englis=
h-like grammar.
>       Ron Clark with an encyclopedic knowledge of languag=
e decided that the
> home team won on points, when it came to logical synta=
x.  So, Glosa does
> not have English as its main guide to grammar ... beca=
use the authors are
> English.  Glosa was designed to be a language with mi=
nimal grammatical
> morphology: it followed the minimal inflections of Engl=
ish to end up with
> virtually NO inflections; thus it can be seen as havin=
g a structure, which
> is a streamlined, standardised version of that of En=
glish.

I'm not English native, sure.... and I can tell you that I consider=

English a 'Troya's horse'. I'm tired hearing people talking about its
easy=
ness! I consider that first steps into a language depends mostly
on morphol=
ogy, and a few vocabulary. Sure, English has very little
morphology (compar=
ed to Russian, or any latin language, for example),
and there _might_ be fe=
w vocabulary (many mixing of words, as in
phrasal verbs). Also, many meanin=
gs come from metaphoric things. For
example, you already exemplified by "gi=
ve a laught". _BUT_ I found
English syntax really really complex. In fact, =
I know even no rules
for its syntax. People always teached to me English "a=
s-is", by
examples. Maybe I know some rules for very small sentences: "My h=
ouse
is near", "I go to school", ... even adding some prepositions. But
whe=
n mixing a bigger amount of phrases, the result is always
unpredictable to =
me. I mean, I never know how good I write a good
sentence. I sure don't thi=
nk that English syntax (t.i. the order of
words, the function of each word =
in a sentence) is easy.

So, people who learn English (and to me agree Russ=
ian people, Spanish,
Catalan (i.e. I could say people who speak latinic lan=
guages), and
Chinese) find a great unaffordable step when they come into "c=
omplex
sentences" of the English language. This gets shown when reading
Eng=
lish literature, and not scientific texts or similar. Those
scientific text=
s are quite easy to understand, specially if foreigners
write them (IMO).

=
Sure, I think that the way of teaching "no rules - learn by examples
becaus=
e of its easyness" is an example of the complexity. If it's that
easy, that=
 logical, please write the syntax rules. It's nosense to me
telling that: "=
it's much logical, you even don't need rules to
understand that". To me tha=
t becomes: "it's that ilogical, that we
even cannot write rules".

From my =
point of view, metaphorically, thinking about a "curve of
learning", I woul=
d think about English by a "f(x)=3Dexp(x)". About
Spanish I would say that =
it has a bigger difficulty at the beginning
(a much complex morfology compa=
red to English, and maybe more often
found irregularities), but the syntax =
is much simpler - that is, after
knowing morphology and a simple amount of =
vocabulary, you can write
easily even complex sentences. The same about Rus=
sian, but with a much
more complex morphology - also, with a much simpler _=
and ruled_
syntax. Russian syntax even allows for a lot of freedom in word =
order.

Therefore, IMO, the English syntax (and by extension, the Glosa
syn=
tax) is the most complex I've never found when learning languages.
And by t=
hat, it has no clear rules, and their speakers even "fieras"
about that.

