---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDcyMDEyNDE0Mi4wMmFjOGViMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 562
msgSnippet: 'Saluta Plu Amika, I follow Konstantin s comments about Planned Languages
  NOT being nationally biassed, and the difficulty that speakers of Russian have with '
nextInTime: 563
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1121831344'
prevInTime: 561
prevInTopic: 0
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: RoDqYt-_Hfo_Jv3_DVDqKNQhQNO1P6Uir3lBvPxtTut7ktKvXzTCXLF56uiRANSYX0DI0j5U6g2gxdc1IX0XVYjDPDTOzraiCRx04WvL7K8-lOV0ic1nGh872cCo5hGV
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Laughing
topicId: 562
userId: 147970330
---

Saluta Plu Amika,
      I follow Konstantin's comments about Planned Languages NOT being 
nationally biassed, and the difficulty that speakers of Russian have with 
English-Language constructs such as " ... do laugh ... " and " " ... give a 
laugh ... ".

  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
 >    ~ridi~ = 'laugh'   to laugh - ridi ;  do laugh - akti ridi ; he laughed
 > - an pa ridi ;
 >                            give a laugh - don u ridi ;  the laughing man -
 > u ridi andro ;
 >                            she told it laughingly - fe ridi dice id

"akti ridi", "don u ridi" are good examples.

Yes, it is similar to "do laugh" and to "give a laugh", but in my native lang
there are no such speech tokens, so they couldn't understand this without
knowledge of English. In Esperanto it is called "anglismoj". I've just 
asking my
co-workers (their native language is also Russian) to translate the phrases 
"do
laugh" and "give a laugh" - and they are at loss of it in despite of >10 years
of studying English.

It would be possible to agree with those and similar to them idioms but we are
speaking about the *international auxillary language*. It *must* be culturally
neutral! Why they simply do not have similar problems of understanding in 
Esperanto?
  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

      One thought that struck me was that in using English to give a 
word-translation of a sample of Glosa, I am not inferring that the Glosa is 
following an English construction, but that Glosa words can be used to 
create compound concepts, and that here were English-Language renditions of 
such concepts.

       An idea that has taken up some of my thought is the one about 
speaking, and thinking in, 'native' Glosa.  In short, I feel that a person 
is probably doing Glosa well when they are 'thinking in Glosa" rather than 
mentally translating from English to Glosa, and then back through English 
again.   Have you ever had the thought that in using Glosa you might be 
able to express ideas that are not in English (or Russian)?  I know, for a 
fact, that Esperantists are proud that they can express things in Esperanto 
that are not directly expressible in their native tongue.  While Esperanto 
achieves this mainly through the use of inflections, Glosa gets a similar 
result through the close association of words, and through using words in 
unusual syntactic relationships (as parts of speech they are not normally 
used for).

     Concerning the odd English usages above, were they hard for Russian 
speakers to define in alternative English usages or to express in a 
Russian-Language translation, or both?

     While you did not mention understanding the concepts as valid Glosa 
constructions, did you try to come up with Esperanto constructions that 
were valid in Esperanto, and which could legitimately be used in sentences 
in that language?

EG    ~Kron an dice plu joko, place akti ridi ad an plu joko!~

(glos)  when he say(s) [plural] joke please do laugh towards his [plural] joke

          "When he tells jokes, please (do) laugh at his jokes!"


          ~Seqe akusti u-la humoro histori pro bi-ze tem, mi ne pote don u 
ridi.~

(glos)   after listening to that humour(ous) story for  two-zero time(s) I 
not can give a laugh

           "After listening to that humorous story for twenty times, I 
can't give a laugh."

Saluta,

Robin


