---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQzMDM1RjcyLjAwMDAwMy4wMjAwMEB2LTZ6bW52cnBxdzJjYnk+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDgxOTE4Mjc1Ny4wMmZmM2RiMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDQyRkVEQUY3LjAwMDAzRi4wMTk5NkB2LTZ6bW52cnBxdzJjYnk+IDw0MzAzNUY3Mi4wMDAwMDMuMDIwMDBAdi02em1udnJwcXcyY2J5Pg==
layout: email
msgId: 574
msgSnippet: '... Well,Sorry Nik, I guess I made an incorrect assumption.  I ve probably
  got a bit touchy over time with people sniping at Glosa.  In the past I especially '
nextInTime: 575
nextInTopic: 576
numMessagesInTopic: 10
postDate: '1124442051'
prevInTime: 573
prevInTopic: 572
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: sYaXZ2Tssh47Bn7fRd1OE0OAzmKKYp8EQD1ppvq9iKGvcVdWlguyNGOlM3Js_HM2bbxZ-wpTP8rotFdLAKzCm553hpTPzdk9WWNReW5sG994QtgfWYu6TCwoUS6SREbc
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Hello all!'
topicId: 566
userId: 147970330
---

At 02:01 AM 8/18/05, Nikhil Sinha pa grafo:
>Well the only reason I could not learn Glosa is I did not get the
>opportunity and time.
>
>Yes and I do like to learn about complicated languages but when it comes to
>language-learning I wud prefer simpler ones.
Well,Sorry Nik,
     I guess I made an incorrect assumption.  I've probably got a bit 
touchy over time with people sniping at Glosa.  In the past I especially 
got annoyed, though I never said anything about it, over people who made 
comments about Glossa.  I know That Ron Clark took his initiative from 
Hogben's Interglossa, and didn't start  work on Glosa until after he'd got 
permission from Hogben to continue the work he had already done on 
Interglossa.  In the early days, the authors had called the new language, 
Glossa; but in line with Ron and Wendy's policy of avoiding the use of 
double-letters, the name was updated.  Unfortunately the brains of some of 
the linguists studying designed languages failed to make the upgrade.

      And just a historical point on that: the two languages, Glosa and 
Interglossa, do not look as similar as we might have thought; this is 
explained by the fact that, although Ron did try very hard to develop 
Hogben's scheme, he simply found it was not workable as it was, so he 
decided to go back to ^square one^ and start again from first 
principles.  The Glosa first principle were, however, quite close to those 
of Interglossa, but somewhat more streamlined.

      I wondered how many of our readers have thought about the idea of a 
language that has its grammar shown through its syntax.  This is the 
premise behind Glosa, and one that has had very little discussion.  While a 
number of people have suggested throwing out a some of Glosa's basic 
tenets, and adding complication, very few Glosa-pe have actually used the 
word "syntax," and considered researching further the refinements of syntax 
in human communication.

      So, for this reason, Nik, I would raise this question with you ... 
and anyone else who wishes to comment on it: have you had any thoughts 
about syntax as a common denominator in language (and communication) and as 
a principle suitable for basing an auxillary language on?

      Without trying to be rude, I suspect that syntax is an area of 
linguistic research that professional Linguists have rather avoided up to now.

Saluta,

Robin 


