---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQzMDM2Q0Q1LjAwMDA0Mi4wMjAwMEB2LTZ6bW52cnBxdzJjYnk+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDgxOTE5MDIyNC4wMmZlY2JmMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDQzMDM2Q0Q1LjAwMDA0Mi4wMjAwMEB2LTZ6bW52cnBxdzJjYnk+
layout: email
msgId: 575
msgSnippet: '... Saluta Plu Amika, Interesting. I will agree that a hard edged vocabulary
  is a good thing.  I can t remember that hekto had replaced centi, but it certainly'
nextInTime: 576
nextInTopic: 577
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1124445161'
prevInTime: 574
prevInTopic: 573
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: QQ_4sD6UBdzdVrlqHIn0ZoQRQTyb9vH7qnW8O1l223siZS1J4i2JxXHzB8nl_OM7yGo1JHhJHiAuvlczsC_zJtyT4OA0a1lA6H-KHcK45qu_M-t9OjWFBP4itp1uad9Y
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Glosa on web'
topicId: 573
userId: 147970330
---

At 02:59 AM 8/18/05, Nikhil pa grafo:
>Hi!
>
>I haven't seen Glosa website for long, but when I last saw it (around last
>year), I read two separate descriptions of Glosa.
>
>One said hundred is 'centi' and other said it is 'hekto', with a message
>that the original 'centi' was incorrect.
>
>If Glosa is to become a good IAL (International Auxiliary Language), it
>should remove such things as the incorrect 'centi' from its pages.
>
>Well, as I said I haven't recently seen the site. So, if it has been
>corrected it would certainly be nice.

Saluta Plu Amika,
      Interesting.
      I will agree that a hard edged vocabulary is a good thing.  I can't 
remember that hekto had replaced centi, but it certainly sounds like a 
'Grekanisation.'  Ron believed that Greek was more malleable as a source of 
vocabulary, while Latin was more concrete in its lexicon.  Basically he is 
right, and I suspect that the shift to ~hekto~ was a product of this thinking.

      But the very strange thing that I must note, here, is that year after 
year, Glosa-pe were adding to the vocabulary, suggesting slight 
improvements in it here and there, but only a few actually tried to use the 
language with its Syntax-based Grammar, while agreeing that the vocabulary 
was not necessarily perfect, though knowing it was extremely usable.

      Glosa could progress for another decade through gradual improvements 
to the vocabulary - and virtually nothing else.

      Sad to say, I do now believe that the language is hard to use, simply 
because the use of non-literal language is excluded.  Having the 
availability of both Greek and Latin roots - at most one root from each 
ancient language - removes a straight-jacket from the language, and does 
provide relief for stylists, who might otherwise find endless repetition of 
a single meme uncomfortable.  The lack of metaphors does make 
thinking-in-Glosa tricky.

      The other problem with learning the language is the absence of a 
'rule-book' .  If Syntax is the thing, then I believe that GOOD SYNTAX can, 
and must, be taught.  However, Ron Clark did not perceive this as a 
stumbling block to people's learning of the language.   On the NeT there is 
still an attempt of mine to tabulate the usage of Glosa ... after the 
event.  I observed the use of Glosa in Plu Glosa Nota and also considered 
my experience in trying to use the language, and reached a few conclusions: 
somewhere on the Web, there is a Glosa Grammar of sorts.

      More than that, I pondered the removal of actual words from the 
expression of syntax, and came up with a ^shorthand^ method of using 
symbols to demonstrate the syntactic elements of language.  While it might 
sound a bit Linguistically high-handed of me to do this, I did not take 
courage to do so until after I had found two books showing previous 
attempts to symbolically represent syntax - in Sydney University Library.

      I suspect that lurking, waiting to be discovered, there is a 
``Grammar of Syntax.``  Maybe, when Linguists discover it there will be a 
breakthrough in the 'Universal Grammar.'  However, it will need to be 
written up in much more understandable language than that used by Chomsky.

      If mankind ever does find out just how syntax really works, then a 
break-through in International Auxiliary Language should occur.  If not, 
ultimately the well-organized army of Esperantists will have their way.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell 


