---
authorName: "Llu\xEDs Batlle i Rossell"
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: =?iso-8859-1?Q?Llu=EDs?= Batlle i Rossell &lt;viric@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDYuMS4yLjAuMC4yMDA1MDgxOTE5MDIyNC4wMmZlY2JmMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIwMDUwODE5MTIwMzE2LkdDMTQyOUB2aWNlcnZlemE+
headers.referencesHeader: PDQzMDM2Q0Q1LjAwMDA0Mi4wMjAwMEB2LTZ6bW52cnBxdzJjYnk+IDw2LjEuMi4wLjAuMjAwNTA4MTkxOTAyMjQuMDJmZWNiZjBAcG8ucGFjaWZpYy5uZXQuYXU+
layout: email
msgId: 577
msgSnippet: '... Right! (I applause, really :) ... Mmm that thing about Universal
  Grammar is only an attracting title, or something in the mind of some people ? I'
nextInTime: 578
nextInTopic: 578
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1124452996'
prevInTime: 576
prevInTopic: 575
profile: viriketo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Ni1joUCr8kSyquQ1qjZ2S1kZQI1DxXVxR-cQRvd0Lv3SFESjEudYiYMnw3hqkKfqsN-5AiWJbZzIM_WojMCyYHKSyoffQn_Xs-OH9PwJGEnWQTQPjP-AJPSGOQzDIXJWJPIfeN5iUNxsFiVpgbn5
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '10'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Glosa grammar and universal grammar (it was: Glosa on web)'
topicId: 573
userId: 159502667
---

On Fri, Aug 19, 2005 at 07:52:41PM +1000, Robin Fairbridge Gaskell wrote:
> 
>       The other problem with learning the language is the absence of a 
> 'rule-book' .  If Syntax is the thing, then I believe that GOOD SYNTAX can, 
> and must, be taught.  However, Ron Clark did not perceive this as a 
> stumbling block to people's learning of the language.   

Right! (I applause, really :)
> 
>       I suspect that lurking, waiting to be discovered, there is a 
> ``Grammar of Syntax.``  Maybe, when Linguists discover it there will be a 
> breakthrough in the 'Universal Grammar.'  However, it will need to be 
> written up in much more understandable language than that used by Chomsky.

Mmm that thing about 'Universal Grammar' is only an attracting title, or
something "in the mind of some people"? I mean... Are there people
believing in a future find of a "universal grammar"?
I thought it was merely a title from Chomsky.
>       If mankind ever does find out just how syntax really works, then a 
> break-through in International Auxiliary Language should occur.  If not, 
> ultimately the well-organized army of Esperantists will have their way.

Ne tiom bone organizitaj, tutcerte ;) Kaj pri la vortaro, mi opinias ke
tiusence Glosa ja pli bonas ol esperanto.
Simple Esperanto facilegas al
euxroplingvanoj, kaj pro ia simpleco kompare al aliaj euxropaj lingvoj, gxi
pli al ne-euxroplingvanoj kompare al la lerno de normale-akceptita euxropa
lingvo.

I think the human cortex is so flexible, that it can deal with many grammars,
different at all. Simply, the nervous system would adapt itself to the language,
having a neural network which deals with a concret language. The mother
language, of course, most defines that neural network about languages.
Isn't that a simple point of view? Why should there be a "universal grammar", if
we have such a flexible brain? :)

Maybe I don't understand, what a "universal grammar" would be :)

Bye!

-- 
In its laws, society makes its mightiest collective effort to impose
predictability upon human behavior.
  - S. I. Hayakawa, "Language in thought and action"

