---
authorName: sydpidd@aol.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: sydpidd@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDFlNS40NjgxM2U2Zi4zMDdkNTZlOEBhb2wuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 594
msgSnippet: '... Durante mi pa lekto u artikla in u New Scientist de plu puta ke pa
  ne-akorda ko plu puta de Chomsky de u  gramatika ke na pa gene ge-nati ko , mi pa
  pote '
nextInTime: 595
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1129053416'
prevInTime: 593
prevInTopic: 0
profile: sydpidd1926
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 69HS6Yq0_Tlq3o0SM5E0L6hxNL-4I1wMuKdkGybupDSediO0zRefppSIkHjNiDz9jsghHqvo
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] blackbird'
topicId: 594
userId: 137587403
---


------------------------------------------------------
Durante mi pa lekto u artikla in u "New Scientist de plu puta ke pa ne-akorda 
ko plu puta de Chomsky de u  gramatika ke na pa gene ge-nati ko , mi pa pote 
te audi u  Turdus merula . Id pa itera uno-ra homo "pink .... pink ...." etc .

 Mi pa ski ex id ke il pa es u feli - il pa_pote es ma de mo feli so u verba 
es u nima-verba . Id es u kogita mo ke u mi menta gene ki a - id es u frase 
tema . Mi pa ski ex u soni ke id pa es loka kata alo sedi u kogita pa inklude u 
stato e u tem - akti-verbi  - " is ", pluso ex u soni , u feli pa es a u 
sekuri tele so u  buta mero pa_pote es "la"; "Feli es la" 

U soni pa muta a "pink pink pink" etc ma nece - U feli pa ki . U akti-verbi 
pa es u akti e u tem pa es u nu-tem . "feli du ki la". 

U soni du gene-es "chrr  chrr  chrr" etc ."Feli du ki ma proxi".  
"chrrrchrrrchrrrchrrr" etc "Risko! Feli du ki fo proxi." 

 "Pink .... .. pink ..pink ..." "feli pa ki"  Turdus du gene-es ma kalma .

 Ne solo mi pa cepti info , pa sorta id ad-in plu frase sed plu hetero pusi 
avi homo plu  passer e plu parus pa zigo u turdus e pa adi plu fobo voci de mu 
auto . Ci na du habe th sorta  de komunika inter plu hetero speci . Qo-mode du 
id gru ko plu idea de Chomsky ?

----------------------------------------------------------
When I was reading an article in the New Scientist putting forward views that 
cast doubt on Chomsky's theory of an inate universal grammar, I could hear a 
blackbird. It was repeating something like "pink .... pink ...." etc. I knew 
from it that there was a cat - There could be more than one cat so the word is 
a noun. It is the first concept my mind is drawn to -  It is a sentence 
subject. I knew from the sound that THE CAT was lying or sitting. The concept 
included a state and time's being the present - a verb - "is" Also from the sound, 
the cat was at a safe distance so the object section sould be "there"
Cat is there  - U felis es la
The sound changed to "pink pink pink etc#- more urgent - the cat was moving. 
The verb was an action and the time the present. Cat does move there .
The sound becomes "chrr chrr chrr etc".
Cat does move nearer.
"chrrrchrrrchrrrchrrr etc"
Danger! cat does move very close.
"pink .... .. pink .. pink ..."
Cat gone, blackbird becoming calmer.
Not only had I received information, sorted it into sentences  but other 
small birds such as sparrows and tits had joined the blackbird  and were adding 
their own alarm calls. Here we have some sort of interspecific communication. 
How does it fit in with Chomsky's ideas?


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


