---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDUxMDA5MTMyMzAwLjcwMjUzLnFtYWlsQHdlYjI2MzA0Lm1haWwudWtsLnlhaG9vLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA1MTAxMjA5MzIzOS4wMmVlMmQzMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA1MTAwOTE2NDE0Mi4wNTQyMzU2MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4gPDIwMDUxMDA5MTMyMzAwLjcwMjUzLnFtYWlsQHdlYjI2MzA0Lm1haWwudWtsLnlhaG9vLmNvbT4=
layout: email
msgId: 596
msgSnippet: '... Much omitted. Saluta holo-pe, e speciali John, ... *  A perfect example
  of the imperfectness of language for communication. Even from this, I am not sure'
nextInTime: 597
nextInTopic: 597
numMessagesInTopic: 11
postDate: '1129081455'
prevInTime: 595
prevInTopic: 595
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Y5pARJXcmHNzHfd-mekpOjBh_aRAJn9616I9frEBsEN6pMBlRNtILCX3SZ1mX1fdFkJmzhA7JUsa_JrJX7xnNADuBS6FCRdRB-HiPM1Ai6xXrI7rGtM2BzjIRHpiBWFa
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] jhnavis@yahoo.co.uk'
topicId: 589
userId: 147970330
---

At 11:23 PM 10/9/05, John Avis pa grafo:

>--- Robin Fairbridge Gaskell  wrote:
>---------------------------------
>At 09:09 PM 10/4/05, John Avis pa grafo:
> >Mi ne es glosa-pe, sed glosa interese mi.
> >
> >I write this as an outsider, but I think Glosa could
> >have great potential.
>* So far so good.      **A nu fo boni.
>
>----------------------------------
     Much omitted.

   Saluta holo-pe, e speciali John,
>
>---------------------------------
>
>Thank you, Robin, for your explanation.
>
>
>My first thoughts were that the two sentences meant
>what you said and that panto cina ami were agreeing
>with the criticism in the first sentence.
>
>It was not the "verb cluster" that threw me - what
>threw me was that I could not believe that panto cina
>ami could not recognise Chinese syntax in Glosa !
>This made me question whether I was translating
>correctly.
*  A perfect example of the imperfectness of language for communication.

    Even from this, I am not sure if you are revising your first 
interpretation of
these two Glosa sentences and possibly misreading the second to
understand that Chinese people had trouble accepting that a weird languge
like Glosa could be so close to their Chinese language in its syntax, or
that you thought the sentence implied an opposite meaning, i.e. that
Chinese people could not perceive that the syntaxes of Chinese language
and Glosa were almost parallel.
     What should have been said - and not just implied - in the original Glosa
statement, is that through lengthy processes of linguistic evolution, both
Chinese and English have dropped out most of their 
inflections.  Thus, they have
shown a form of convergent evolution in that they have both come to rely
on syntax for the sense of their sentences ... very notably, from East
and West, the resulting syntax - regardless of the forms of the two
languages - is very similar.
     Pushing the argument to an unprovable level, we might conclude that
syntax is really the language element that is hard-wired into our brains, and
that the speakers of both of these languages have 'intuitively' 
discovered this
primacy of syntax.

>I suppose the answer is that while Glosa is similar to
>Chinese and English, it not Chinese nor English.
*  This is something that some people find hard to accept.  In fact, Glosa
is a language in its own right, and there are expressions that can be more
elegant in Glosa than they would be in English.  Simply because the authors
of Glosa are English speakers, some critics see the similarities between
the two languages as a function of author First Language.
     On standing back, I tend to see the fact that Ron and Wendy spoke a
language, that had become streamlined through the loss of inflections, as a
catalyst for the synthesis of Glosa: pushing language to the full extent of
this dimension  - where there was no other grammar than syntax.

>I do not consider myself a glosa-pe as I have made no
>attempt to learn Glosa, but with a rough idea of its
>syntax I have been reading it and, as I said, most of
>the time I can read it easily.
*  John you can be described as a casual reader of Glosa.  How many other
languages can be picked up, without tuition, by the casual reader?
    While Ron Clark went out of his way to avoid giving a grammatical
prescription for Glosa, the Linguists demand it!  Ron wanted to avoid the
confusions of a pedantically imposed book of grammatical rules.  History
might show this to have been a mistake.  I did try subsequently, to explain
the grammar of Glosa, and this is on the web somewhere.
    However, what Ron should definitely have done was to research the rules
of syntax; and, most people do not recognise that syntax does have rules.
So, good syntax - good word order - is what gives English its rhythm,
flow and meaning.  Glosa is the same, only moreso.  While Chinese people
sometimes do not know what to do with the "-ing" inflection, and so add it
to almost everything, with Glosa, this conundrum is removed.  But, for people
whose first languages rely heavily on inflection, asking them to use Glosa can
be akin to removing the crutch from a cripple.
    All in all, Glosa looks like being the Planned Language most likely to be
readily readable by the largest proportion of the human population.  Writing
Glosa, on the other hand takes a little skill, and also some precision of mind.

>You have left me wondering whether I should make some
>serious effort to learn it !
*  Know that it exists, acknowledge that it is at the other end of 
the language
spectrum to languages which are very highly inflected; then, consider
not translating, but 'retelling' a well-known story in Glosa.
    When you catch yourself thinking in Glosa, rather than thinking 
in English,
and and then translating it, you will know you are using Glosa effectively.
    When I use two language writing - Engilsh and Glosa - I always write the
Glosa first: for me, it is fatal to write the English first, then try to find
translations into Glosa for my vernacular English.
    You could be in for a pleasant shock.  I was when I explored "Cinderella"
in Glosa: my imagination took off, resulting in a much more intriguing, and
believable, ~Cinerala~.

Habe u boni di.

Robin Gaskell




