---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDAwMDcwMWM1ZjdjNyQ3ZjA5NWRjMCQzMjgyNzYzZUBhMGgzcjc+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA1MTIwODAxMzYzOC4wMmI5MGRiMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDI3ZC4xMTQ5OTAyLjMwYzFjNjc5QGFvbC5jb20+IDwwMDA3MDFjNWY3YzckN2YwOTVkYzAkMzI4Mjc2M2VAYTBoM3I3Pg==
layout: email
msgId: 614
msgSnippet: '... *** Not too sure about this: these two Planned Languages are at the
  opposite ends of the inflected/non-inflected spectrum.  They are certainly ^chalk
  and'
nextInTime: 615
nextInTopic: 615
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1133968151'
prevInTime: 613
prevInTopic: 610
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 3bo4lYcOX8ewgQrLKPOg_L3nGJlvtmQcw1cMLS6FRxaPRAzAY6ZuMtJH_Msy6EiMp5TIa72aTflfL1D7-sffyqew2hVlKK3JHrUNPRun9BdGBCmb_c_I6xgqDYUUnbOZ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] a universal grammar ish ??'
topicId: 609
userId: 147970330
---

At 04:07 PM 12/3/05, Nikolao grafo:

>----- Original Message -----
>From: <sydpidd@...>
>To: <glosalist@yahoogroups.com>
>Sent: Friday, December 02, 2005 6:47 PM
>Subject: Re: [glosalist] a universal grammar ish ??
>
> > I have started free lessons in Esperanto - very interesting. Glosa seems
>to
> > be developed from west europe languages and Esperanto from east
>european -I am
> > more at ease with the western ones.I do not think that either is better or
> > worse than the other, each has characteristics that help me and each some
>that
> > don't. It has made me think about universal language and the following is
> > buzzing about in my head.
*** I will answer this in the a.m. when I am more awake.

>It's OK. Try to make Glosa+Esperanto
*** Not too sure about this: these two Planned Languages are at the 
opposite ends of the inflected/non-inflected spectrum.  They are 
certainly ^chalk and cheese^ when compared.
      However organising the teaching and social intercourse of Glosa 
as aggressively as are those of Esperanto would definitely be of 
advantage to Glosa.

>Make Glosa as strong as Esperanto
>Glosa++ as C++
*** This is a valid concept if it suggests tightening up the rules of 
Glosa allowing it to be more machine-handleable.  And yes, the 
Syntax-based Grammar of Glosa could be researched and extended.

>Nikolao Mihajlenko
>
>Zamenhof is dead, so you do it.
*** I did, already.  Ron Clark has also joined Zamenhof, so that 
leaves the field wide open!
   But I am now 69 and retired, and short on physical 
resources.  During my twenty-five-odd years of active promotion of 
Glosa, I had a hell of a lot of trouble in encouraging people to 
actually use the language in an every-day capacity.  Also, the 
writing of short stories in Glosa was rather thin.  Academic 
discussion in relation to Glosa was also in short supply.

   Still, I am not dead, yet, and could contribute to meaningful 
discussion about the future of Glosa.

>Think about -ebla, -inda, -ema, -igi, -ighi for Glosa.
*** If these are category affixes - of the four-letter variety - by 
contrast with the existing two-letter category affixes, e.g. -pe, 
then yes, I would agree that there is a place for them in 
Glosa.  However, while such affixes are joined invisibly in 
Esperanto, I do believe that Ron Clark was right in maintaining the 
integrity of each word, and using hyphens for affixes.  This means 
that in written form the affixes do not create the appearance of 
false words.  Spoken, the affixes are ssounded separately from the 
word-stem ... thus the hyphen is felt, if not actually pronounced.

Saluta,

Robin


