---
authorName: stefichjo
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;stefichjo&quot; &lt;sts@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA1MTIxOTIxNDYzNS4wMmJiYmM2MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGRvYnBiZSs2ZGZ2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 625
msgSnippet: '... to ... Hello Robin. When I learnt Esperanto I already knew about
  adjectives, adverbs, nouns, verbs and their declensions. Esperanto implements this
  concept'
nextInTime: 626
nextInTopic: 637
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1135175854'
prevInTime: 624
prevInTopic: 621
profile: stefichjo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Gan_NzmpXy2L6N6YVVhnhkmYroo3meZHm_POg2Kx6iN4uMqOGEMTMjKCRPuQmWVsUI-AoLOnU2gfw1_VDV_gkIPV_n0vAtugr_p0bosU
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Introduction'
topicId: 619
userId: 86512570
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Robin Fairbridge Gaskell <drought-
breake=
r@p...> wrote:
>
> Hello Friends,
>          Frankly Stephan, I am overwhel=
med.
>          It's interesting that some people in the Planned Language 
=
> world prefer simpler languages like Glosa because they don't want 
to 
> =
learn a lot of inflection; while others enjoy getting their tongues 
> arou=
nd all of the possible complexities of languages, and hence, go 
> for the =
more complicated languages.
>          My guess is that you swallow them al=
l whole, and don't 
> notice any difficult bits.

Hello Robin. When I learn=
t Esperanto I already knew about adjectives, 
adverbs, nouns, verbs and the=
ir declensions. Esperanto implements 
this concept very well, and I enjoyed=
 learning it. (I "swallowed" 
it.) I could always apply my knowledge about =
grammar in order to go 
always deeper into the grammar.
Glosa is cool becau=
se it shows that a language can be even simpler. 
But my little problem is =
that I need to know the part-of-speech of 
every word in a sentence anyway =
in order to feel sure that I'm 
uttering an actual sentence and not just a =
latin-greek mish-mash in 
order to explain myself. Until now Glosa seems ve=
ry, very flexible, 
maybe too flexible. Now that I'm going to read carefull=
y your answers 
(thank you very much), I shall see if things become a littl=
e bit 
clearer to me.

>          Despite all this, Glosa was developed bec=
ause there is a 
> very real problem with language: most people are only ev=
er fluent 
in 
> their native tongue.  And this was the reasoning behind Gl=
osa's 
> formation: It was planned to be a language that the vast majority =

of 
> humanity could learn to use, at least functionally.

What do you mea=
n with "functionally"? "Grammatically"?

The same idea is about Esperanto, =
isn't it? Even though the main 
organisations of Esperanto are making a pol=
icy of neutrality. But I 
agree that Glosa may be more appropriate than Esp=
eranto. But there 
may be also things to improve, for example the "q". The =
first time I 
saw a single "q" (without "u"), I thought that Glosa was some=
 kind of 
sci-fi language, without cultural or political attitude. (Also 
K=
lingon has "q", maybe I'm preinfluenced by it.)

>          Maybe you will =
be around when our leaders decide to adopt 
an 
> International Auxillary L=
anguage (IAL).

They have already adopted English so far. - And we comply. =
:(

>          If so, you could find your education and interests helpful 
=
> in working with the project.
>          Have you heard of the Distributed=
 Language Translation 
> Project  (DLT, 1972)?  There was an attempt to mak=
e Esperanto the 
> pivot language in a computer translation research projec=
t; the 
> version of Eo used was supposed to be both computer readable and =

> humanly readable.  Things didn't quite work out, however, and the 
> fun=
ding was stopped.  The idea was to have all documents stored and 
> transmi=
tted around the system, only coming out as a national 
language 
> at the o=
utput terminal, the information previously having been 
input 
> into the s=
ystem at another terminal that converted a different 
> national language i=
nto the "distributed language".

Yes. I think I have learnt a more suitable=
 language in the meantime. 
It's called Latejami (and had a lot of names be=
fore that, the first 
one was "Katanda"), see www.eskimo.com/~ram/Ladekwa/
=
It works (for the cases studied yet) for English very well, I think.

>    =
      It was my belief that the project would have been 
completed 
> satis=
factorily had the pivot language been Glosa.

I'm not sure...

Regards,
Ste=
phan Schneider




