---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGRvYnFucytxY3IyQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA1MTIyNzE4MDUzNy4wMzdkN2E3MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA1MTIxOTIyNTEwNS4wMmJjN2FiMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4gPGRvYnFucytxY3IyQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 636
msgSnippet: '... For speed: English. ~Glosa habe eu fono.~ S    /   V  /    O NOUN   VERB   NOUN
  Phrase  Phrase  Phrase              ~eu fono~ Modifier/  Substantive NOUN '
nextInTime: 637
nextInTopic: 639
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1135676737'
prevInTime: 635
prevInTopic: 632
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: ojfH8I_Abcs3GaifRudYA4or_HTw53VN_a-vjJcjliRnWx_usEEUBA9U89P1MPknM8VFqaWCoEs0nFjEhz36TY59Sdtjy5bZ3cbYITgF4PCFvc25yiLCQ-0BZGtzJXvr
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Plu hetero questio'
topicId: 618
userId: 147970330
---

At 02:01 AM 12/22/05, Stephan Schneider pa Grafo:
>--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Robin Fairbridge Gaskell <drought-
>breaker@p...> wrote:
>
> > >Pagina 22: "Glosa es eu fono." -> "Glosa habe eu fono." Que?
> > *** ~Glosa es eu fono.~
> >       [Glosa is beautiful-sounding] - U-ci habe
> > solo u proxi uti de un akti-verbi, ~es~.
> >
> >       ~Glosa habe eu fono.~
> >       [Glosa has good sound] - U-ci eqa u ma normo uti de u lingua.
>
>It irritates me that in Glosa you can say "is sounding" and "sounds".
>They are both the same, in my opinion.
>###
For speed: English.
           ~Glosa habe eu fono.~
               S    /   V  /    O
         NOUN   VERB   NOUN
        Phrase  Phrase  Phrase              ~eu fono~
                                                  Modifier/  Substantive NOUN

      This is the purest form of the expression.  By seeking to 
impose adjectival forms and continuous tense onto these Glosa 
sentences, I believe you are importing 'National Language' structures 
to a place where they ought not be.
       ""is"" is a very sloppily used English language verb.  For 
this reason, in Glosa there are four possible renditions of ""is"".
         habe  (has the property of)  - this rendition is used in Francais.
           eqa    (is equal to) - for exact scientific equivalence.
           gene (becomes, or is getting)  - for gradual changes
           es     (is the same as) - to be avoided where other usages 
are more correct.

>"Glosa eu fono." - "Glosa is beautifully sounding." = "Glosa sounds
>beutiful."
>"Glosa habe eu fono." - "Glosa has a beautiful sounding."
### Here for reasons of needing to find a ``Part of Speech`` you are 
forcing ~eu~
to BE an adverb replete with its "ly", ... modifying its associated VERB.
       And in the three-word - unnecessarily brief - version you 
imagine that ~fono~ becomes a NOUN in the 'Present Participle' form.
       Let me say, kindly, that Ron Clark invented Glosa to avoid 
such unnecessary confusions of form ... such as 'ly' and 'ing' ... 
and, quite simply, I would say they are added to the English language 
version of the text because your mind imagines they ought to be there.
       The ``adverb`` and ``participle`` are NOT there in the Glosa: 
they are academic forms imposed on language by those wishing to 
explain the complications of language.
       Ron Clark attacked the problem, of complexity, from a 
different angle: he designed a language in which lexical items were 
primarily concepts, and ... their placement determined their 
function.  In English, the people have almost succeeded in throwing 
out the morphological grammar they were bequeathed by the Germans, 
Romans and French, and there are very few inflections remaining in 
the language nowadays.  What would happen if the remaining 
inflections were eliminated?
       We would end up with an uninflected language that had 
Syntax-based Grammar, which is my term for the sort of grammar Glosa has.

       It would be a simplified language - deceptively so - that 
could be spoken in clear, precise sentences.  The only problem is 
that most people do not think what they are going to say before they 
open their mouths - and words tumble out, willy nilly.  The use of 
syntax to order a language is, in fact, a primary function of the 
brain; I am of the unpopular opinion that the brain selects its 
concepts, orders them syntactically, then imposes its learnt cultural 
grammatical form onto the words so that everyone in that culture can 
more-or-less understand each other.

      The concept of Chomsky's Universal Grammar is fairly close to 
the idea of a language with a streamlined grammatical pattern devoid 
of morphological forms.

###
In terms of:-
      "Glosa habe eu fono." - "Glosa has a beautiful sounding."
                                                         ^ 
~           ^
     did you notice that you added a few grammatical niceties to the 
English not in the Glosa?   One Glosa rule might be: where the simple 
form will do, then that is it.
                                          'Glosa has beautiful sound.'
is a full sentence, and says everything the writer of the Glosa 
intended.   -FUL is added, not because it is in the original,  which 
is grammatically satisfied by its word order, but by the requirements 
of English that needs to tell us that the beauty is not an object in 
itself (VERB function), but that the 'beauty' concept is modifying 
some other object.

  ###
>I think "Glosa is beutiful(ly) sounding" is an angicism that is not
>appropriate for an auxlang. "Glosa sounds beautiful" should
>do. "Glosa es eu fono." should mean only "Glosa is a beautiful sound.'
   I couldn't agree more.
However, according to the rules of "HEAD FINAL" phrase structure, a 
well-formed 'head final' phrase has the substantive word (VERB or 
NOUN) last with the modifiers leading up to them.

        Glosa                                         English
      MODIFIERS                   ADJECTIVES or ADVERBS

Thus, in well formed Glosa, the concepts that are functioning as 
modifiers are placed before the concepts that are functioning as 
verbs or nouns.

Translating from English to Glosa:                   /~~~~ modifier
                                                                    v 
/~~~ substantive
        "Glosa sounds beautiful."  --->   ~Glosa eu sono.~        verb
       NOUN  /    VERB                                /  VERB
      Phrase       Phrase                                  Phrase

###
>  Or is this only possible when you say "Glosa es u eu fono."?
>                  This may be 'transliterated' English; while 
> syntactically correct,
       it might be semantically awkward as Glosa.


> > >I think now that "u-ci" is a noun. ("Que u-ci es tu domi?")
> > *** Ya, ~u-ci~ funktio iso u nomina-verbi: uti un
> > England-lingua, na sio uti u verbi, "pro-noun".
> >             Id eqa u speciali Glosa stru: u = the; ci = here. (this)
>
>Gratia, sed ...
>*verbi -> verba - or does "verbi" exist, too?
###
    Sorry about this: I tend, on occasion, to speak 'Paleo Glosa'. 
Once, when Ron had declared that the terminal vowel was 'floating' 
(i.e.optional) I preferred the sound of the terminal -i for this 
word.  In fact, my ancient, 1992 GLOSA 6000
dictionary lists 'VERBI word'.


> > >In this case a noun phrase with "domi" would cause the first noun
>to
> > >become an adjective. In this case I would prefer "domi u-ci"
>(*"housy
> > >that") instead of "u-ci domi" (*"thaty house").
> > ***    ci = here            la = there
> >       u-ci = this           u-la = that
> >
> >          Iso u pro-nomina-verba, ~u-ci~ habe u funktio de u
>deskribe-verbi.
> >
> >          Id loka intra u nomina-grega es pre u substantia nomina-
>verbi.
>
>So in a noun phrase the adjective comes first, and then comes the
>noun, right? But this rule doesn't always apply, I will look for
>examples.
###
     Yes Stephan.  Check out the concept of 'Head Final Phrases'.

There are even modern English language text books - often with 
"Functional Grammar" in their titles - that explain sequences in good 
English that demonstrate the hierarchy of word elements in a Noun Phrase
      e.g.  these three big brown bears

  Try relocating the order and still getting a satisfactory 
phrase.  This is an example of pure Syntax-based Grammar.

> > >Couldn't Chinese be an interesting example of phrasing these
> > >concepts? Their language is isolating as well.
> > *** Id es so.  U Cina-pe pa dice a mi ke an lingua habe u homo stru
>de Glosa.
>
>Cool!
>
> >        Sintaxi habe vikto!
> >       [sintax has victory]
> >    Eng.  Syntax wins.
> >
> > >Que "u bibli ge-grafo ex G. B. Shaw" es "u ge-grafo ex G. B. Shaw
> > >bibli"?
> >   *** Eng.  True, but clunkily so.
> >
> >  Posi:   Id es u bibli qi pa es ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw.
> >
> >            Id es u bibli qi      es ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw.
> >
> >            Id es u bibli;             ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw.
> >
> >                  U-ci bibli gene ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw.
> >
> >      Nota:   ~ge-grafo ex G. B. Shaw~ eqa u fo komplexi
>deskribe-grega.
>
>Gratia.
>Id es u bibli qui pa es ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw.
>Ergo "qui pa es ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw" equa u deskribe-grega, que?
>Plus-co "ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw" equa u deskribe-grega. Sed mu es
>poste substantia-verba.
###
      With apologies, I might seem to be introducing a new rule at a 
late date,
but there are in English both "phrases" and "clauses".  Glosa allows 
people to use both structures as well.  Rather boringly, I called 
them ~plu minor grega~  and ~plu major grega~. (phrases and clauses).
         Notice the three sentences following the word, ~Posi~, above.

           These show how in Glosa we can elide ~qi pa es~ by 
replacing the words with a semicolon (;)
           However the elided form, ~;ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw.~ is 
still an adjectival clause modifying the word ~bibli~.   Clauses, 
having a VERB of their own are mini sentences in their own right, and 
thus have their own Subject-Verb-Object structure.

       IE             ;     qi        pa es ge-grafo     ex G.B. Shaw.
                     /
         Clause      Pronoun      Verb                  Indirect
          marker                      Phrase                Object

      P.S.  I prefer to use the ~gene~ equivalent of "is" rather than 
the ~es~ here, because the book ""got"" written over time; and 
considering that we have established in the primary clause that it 
_is_ a book, it is somewhat semantically repetitive to repeat that it 
"is" a book again.  While I probably sound a bit pedantic, I say so 
simply to give an example of the confusion which is "is" in English.

> > >"There is" = "il es", but "It's getting dark" is "id gene no-foto".
> > >Why not "il gene no-foto?". Is there any real "id" that's getting
> > >dark?
> > ***  Good question.  ~il~ was a late addition to
> > the Glosa lexicon: the authors found the need for that
>indeterminate "there".
>
>By the way, where are the authors now? Do they still develop Glosa?
###
Wendy lives in Surry in England: Glosa Education Organisation
                                                  P.O. Box 18, Richmond
                                                  Surry, TW9 2GE
                                                    U.K.
   and has just sent me the eight-page printed periodical, "PLU GLOSA NOTA."
This is edition 91.   If you subscribed to this, you would see a lot 
more Glosa in action.  Unfortunately, Ron Clark is no longer with us.

>Thank you for all the answers.
>
>Regards,
>Stephan Schneider
###
Sorry about using so much English, but I wanted to get more deeply 
into the theory behind Glosa.

Sauta,

Robin Gaskell






>
>
>Yahoo! Groups Links
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>
>__________ NOD32 1.1335 (20051222) Information __________
>
>This message was checked by NOD32 antivirus system.
>http://www.eset.com


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


