---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGRvYnBiZSs2ZGZ2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA1MTIyNzIwNDcxNC4wMmJjZjIxMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA1MTIxOTIxNDYzNS4wMmJiYmM2MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4gPGRvYnBiZSs2ZGZ2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 637
msgSnippet: 'At 01:37 AM 12/22/05, Stephan grafo: BRIEF COMMENT FROM ME BELOW ...
  Well, I am a bit surprised about the attraction to Latejami. There was a thought
  that'
nextInTime: 638
nextInTopic: 1197
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1135679626'
prevInTime: 636
prevInTopic: 625
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: GBCpmBmqEiIGq4eTfgfbd6LbLq_868qdJ4kSbIj1qa9U6gTPXYRIECTuzhdfhykeh5jE8DArZ2MkZsSkhqlM5JMALhaDOGBHG3zQFIHWmGn7zZDeqKDK9yydUjkhOJGV
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: Introduction'
topicId: 619
userId: 147970330
---

At 01:37 AM 12/22/05, Stephan grafo:

              BRIEF COMMENT FROM ME BELOW
>--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Robin Fairbridge Gaskell <drought-
>breaker@p...> wrote:
> >
> > Hello Friends,
> >          Frankly Stephan, I am overwhelmed.
> >          It's interesting that some people in the Planned Language
> > world prefer simpler languages like Glosa because they don't want
>to
> > learn a lot of inflection; while others enjoy getting their tongues
> > around all of the possible complexities of languages, and hence, go
> > for the more complicated languages.
> >          My guess is that you swallow them all whole, and don't
> > notice any difficult bits.
>
>Hello Robin. When I learnt Esperanto I already knew about adjectives,
>adverbs, nouns, verbs and their declensions. Esperanto implements
>this concept very well, and I enjoyed learning it. (I "swallowed"
>it.) I could always apply my knowledge about grammar in order to go
>always deeper into the grammar.
>Glosa is cool because it shows that a language can be even simpler.
>But my little problem is that I need to know the part-of-speech of
>every word in a sentence anyway in order to feel sure that I'm
>uttering an actual sentence and not just a latin-greek mish-mash in
>order to explain myself. Until now Glosa seems very, very flexible,
>maybe too flexible. Now that I'm going to read carefully your answers
>(thank you very much), I shall see if things become a little bit
>clearer to me.
>
> >          Despite all this, Glosa was developed because there is a
> > very real problem with language: most people are only ever fluent
>in
> > their native tongue.  And this was the reasoning behind Glosa's
> > formation: It was planned to be a language that the vast majority
>of
> > humanity could learn to use, at least functionally.
>
>What do you mean with "functionally"? "Grammatically"?
>
>The same idea is about Esperanto, isn't it? Even though the main
>organisations of Esperanto are making a policy of neutrality. But I
>agree that Glosa may be more appropriate than Esperanto. But there
>may be also things to improve, for example the "q". The first time I
>saw a single "q" (without "u"), I thought that Glosa was some kind of
>sci-fi language, without cultural or political attitude. (Also
>Klingon has "q", maybe I'm preinfluenced by it.)
>
> >          Maybe you will be around when our leaders decide to adopt
>an
> > International Auxillary Language (IAL).
>
>They have already adopted English so far. - And we comply. :(
>
> >          If so, you could find your education and interests helpful
> > in working with the project.
> >          Have you heard of the Distributed Language Translation
> > Project  (DLT, 1972)?  There was an attempt to make Esperanto the
> > pivot language in a computer translation research project; the
> > version of Eo used was supposed to be both computer readable and
> > humanly readable.  Things didn't quite work out, however, and the
> > funding was stopped.  The idea was to have all documents stored and
> > transmitted around the system, only coming out as a national
>language
> > at the output terminal, the information previously having been
>input
> > into the system at another terminal that converted a different
> > national language into the "distributed language".
>    xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
>Yes. I think I have learnt a more suitable language in the meantime.
>It's called Latejami (and had a lot of names before that, the first
>one was "Katanda"), see www.eskimo.com/~ram/Ladekwa/
>It works (for the cases studied yet) for English very well, I think.
>   xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
> >          It was my belief that the project would have been
>completed
> > satisfactorily had the pivot language been Glosa.
>
>I'm not sure...
>
>Regards,
>Stephan Schneider
Well, I am a bit surprised about the attraction to Latejami.
         There was a thought that recognition of vocabulari was a 
good idea: and this concept has been a large part of the Esperanto 
argument, and considering that Glosa vocab is from the Classical 
languages of Greek and Latin, it has also been a large part of the 
Glosa argument.

            However, Stephen, I detect that you expect lenguages to 
have complexity, and I suspect that this is a part of your reason for 
liking Latejami.

             Needless to say, some people object to Glosa claiming 
that it is simply English sentence structure with a changed 
vocabulary.  Of course, I would not have stayed with Glosa were that 
the case.  Whether we will ever get an International Auxiliary 
Language adopted officially for planet Earth, I don't know.  It is my 
expectation that I will be joining Ron - on the other side - before 
the world is ready to use an IAL.  So, Glosa could just be an 
experiment before its time.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell 

[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


