---
authorName: stefichjo
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;stefichjo&quot; &lt;sts@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGRxZTB0Mys3cjI5QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGRxZTgwait2bWRtQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 644
msgSnippet: '... S / V / O NOUN VERB NOUN Phrase Phrase Phrase ~eu fono~ Modifier/
  Substantive NOUN ... impose adjectival forms and continuous tense onto these Glosa '
nextInTime: 645
nextInTopic: 645
numMessagesInTopic: 15
postDate: '1137353555'
prevInTime: 643
prevInTopic: 643
profile: stefichjo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: d3WGBNG1ucNkdodIqAW_Oy5otZNNMLOCWVrq-EoUAyRl3tk1McO4QUgxealdms5UXlefJRfuebhk5Yzi-LbPCkoxX1wLqhhNlIvUbZTi
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Mi gene sko de Glosa..'
topicId: 620
userId: 86512570
---

>~Glosa habe eu fono.~
S / V / O
NOUN VERB NOUN
Phrase Phrase Phrase ~eu fo=
no~
Modifier/ Substantive NOUN

>This is the purest form of the expression.=
 By seeking to
impose adjectival forms and continuous tense onto these Glos=
a
sentences, I believe you are importing 'National Language' structures
to =
a place where they ought not be.

sts:
I think I have read these structures=
, and I was wondering.

>""is"" is a very sloppily used English language ve=
rb. For
this reason, in Glosa there are four possible renditions of ""is"".=

habe (has the property of) - this rendition is used in Francais.
eqa (is e=
qual to) - for exact scientific equivalence.
gene (becomes, or is getting) =
- for gradual changes
es (is the same as) - to be avoided where other usage=
s
are more correct.

sts:
OK. I'm very intersted in the syntax-based gramma=
r. But we cannot
always elide it saying that it is so simple that we don't =
need to
formulate it.

 ###
In terms of:-
"Glosa habe eu fono." - "Glosa ha=
s a beautiful sounding."
^
~ ^
did you notice that you added a few grammati=
cal niceties to the
English not in the Glosa? One Glosa rule might be: wher=
e the simple
form will do, then that is it.
'Glosa has beautiful sound.'
is=
 a full sentence, and says everything the writer of the Glosa
intended. -FU=
L is added, not because it is in the original, which
is grammatically satis=
fied by its word order, but by the requirements
of English that needs to te=
ll us that the beauty is not an object in
itself (VERB function), but that =
the 'beauty' concept is modifying
some other object.

sts:
Yes, I noticed. =
You're already advising how to speak _good_ Glosa. But
first I must learn h=
ow to speak _correct_ Glosa.

###
>I think "Glosa is beutiful(ly) sounding"=
 is an angicism that is not
>appropriate for an auxlang. "Glosa sounds beau=
tiful" should
>do. "Glosa es eu fono." should mean only "Glosa is a beautif=
ul sound.'
I couldn't agree more.
However, according to the rules of "HEAD =
FINAL" phrase structure, a
well-formed 'head final' phrase has the substant=
ive word (VERB or
NOUN) last with the modifiers leading up to them.

sts:
O=
K=85 you say =84head final", this might be a syntax rule. But what is a hea=
d?
I have thought about phrases myself a bit, and I think in terms like
=84=
subject", =84predicate", =84object".
I see you: I (subject), see (predicate=
), you (object)
fly on the wall: fly (subject), on (predicate), the wall (o=
bject)
And I think of various markers, like =84the", =84a", =84many" (noun =
phrase
markers), =84very", =84so", =84not" (predicate phrase markers), and
=
theoretically a sentence marker like =84is", perhaps.
Hm, but I'm not sure =
if we're talking about the same concepts. Glosa
is still strange to me, and=
 there is very little literature about it.
Where did you read about the hea=
d final structure, and what does it mean?

>Glosa English
MODIFIERS ADJECTI=
VES or ADVERBS

>Thus, in well formed Glosa, the concepts that are function=
ing as
modifiers are placed before the concepts that are functioning as
ver=
bs or nouns.

sts:
But the verb modifies the subject and comes _after_ subj=
ect. It's not
that simple and absolute, I think.

>Translating from English=
 to Glosa: /~~~~ modifier
v
/~~~ substantive
"Glosa sounds beautiful." --->=
 ~Glosa eu sono.~ verb
NOUN / VERB / VERB
Phrase Phrase Phrase

> > >I thin=
k now that "u-ci" is a noun. ("Que u-ci es tu domi?")
> > *** Ya, ~u-ci~ fu=
nktio iso u nomina-verbi: uti un
> > England-lingua, na sio uti u verbi, "p=
ro-noun".
> > Id eqa u speciali Glosa stru: u =3D the; ci =3D here. (this)
=
>
>Gratia, sed ...
>*verbi -> verba - or does "verbi" exist, too?
###
Sorry=
 about this: I tend, on occasion, to speak 'Paleo Glosa'.
Once, when Ron ha=
d declared that the terminal vowel was 'floating'
(i.e.optional) I preferre=
d the sound of the terminal -i for this
word. In fact, my ancient, 1992 GLO=
SA 6000
dictionary lists 'VERBI word'.

sts:
Interesting =96 how can I acce=
ss this kind of declarations? I feel cut
off. : )

> > >In this case a noun=
 phrase with "domi" would cause the first noun
>to
> > >become an adjective=
. In this case I would prefer "domi u-ci"
>(*"housy
> > >that") instead of =
"u-ci domi" (*"thaty house").
> > *** ci =3D here la =3D there
> > u-ci =3D=
 this u-la =3D that
> >
> > Iso u pro-nomina-verba, ~u-ci~ habe u funktio d=
e u
>deskribe-verbi.
> >
> > Id loka intra u nomina-grega es pre u substant=
ia nomina-
>verbi.
>
>So in a noun phrase the adjective comes first, and th=
en comes the
>noun, right? But this rule doesn't always apply, I will look =
for
>examples.
###
Yes Stephan. Check out the concept of 'Head Final Phrase=
s'.

sts:
Still I think that a verb is like an adjective =96 a predicate. B=
oth
should have the same position.

>There are even modern English language=
 text books - often with
"Functional Grammar" in their titles - that explai=
n sequences in good
English that demonstrate the hierarchy of word elements=
 in a Noun Phrase
e.g. these three big brown bears

>Try relocating the ord=
er and still getting a satisfactory
phrase. This is an example of pure Synt=
ax-based Grammar.

> > >Couldn't Chinese be an interesting example of phras=
ing these
> > >concepts? Their language is isolating as well.
> > *** Id es=
 so. U Cina-pe pa dice a mi ke an lingua habe u homo stru
>de Glosa.
>
>Coo=
l!
>
> > Sintaxi habe vikto!

sts:
By the way =96 why not =84sintaxi vikto"=
?

> > [sintax has victory]
> > Eng. Syntax wins.
> >
> > >Que "u bibli ge-=
grafo ex G. B. Shaw" es "u ge-grafo ex G. B. Shaw
> > >bibli"?
> > *** Eng.=
 True, but clunkily so.
> >
> > Posi: Id es u bibli qi pa es ge-grafo ex G.=
B. Shaw.
> >
> > Id es u bibli qi es ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw.
> >
> > Id es u=
 bibli; ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw.
> >
> > U-ci bibli gene ge-grafo ex G.B. Sha=
w.
> >
> > Nota: ~ge-grafo ex G. B. Shaw~ eqa u fo komplexi
>deskribe-grega=
.
>
>Gratia.
>Id es u bibli qui pa es ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw.
>Ergo "qui pa =
es ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw" equa u deskribe-grega, que?
>Plus-co "ge-grafo ex=
 G.B. Shaw" equa u deskribe-grega. Sed mu es
>poste substantia-verba.
###
W=
ith apologies, I might seem to be introducing a new rule at a
late date,
bu=
t there are in English both "phrases" and "clauses". Glosa allows
people to=
 use both structures as well. Rather boringly, I called
them ~plu minor gre=
ga~ and ~plu major grega~. (phrases and clauses).
Notice the three sentence=
s following the word, ~Posi~, above.

sts:
A clause has a verb, a phrase ha=
sn't, is it that?

>These show how in Glosa we can elide ~qi pa es~ by
repl=
acing the words with a semicolon (;)
However the elided form, ~;ge-grafo ex=
 G.B. Shaw.~ is
still an adjectival clause modifying the word ~bibli~. Clau=
ses,
having a VERB of their own are mini sentences in their own right, and
=
thus have their own Subject-Verb-Object structure.

sts:
That's OK, but I s=
till don't understand why we can put an adjective
clause/phrase in front an=
d behind a noun phrase. That's sort of
anarchy, so to say.

>IE ; qi pa es =
ge-grafo ex G.B. Shaw.
/
Clause Pronoun Verb Indirect
marker Phrase Object
=

sts:
I come to the conclusion that =84es", =84habe", =84gene", =84eqa" are=
 sentence
markers. The =84qi" marks the sentence as a predicate.
In a simil=
ar way =84u" and =84plu" are noun phrase markers, and =84fu" and
=84pa" are=
 predicate markers.

>P.S. I prefer to use the ~gene~ equivalent of "is" ra=
ther than
the ~es~ here, because the book ""got"" written over time; and
co=
nsidering that we have established in the primary clause that it
_is_ a boo=
k, it is somewhat semantically repetitive to repeat that it
"is" a book aga=
in. While I probably sound a bit pedantic, I say so
simply to give an examp=
le of the confusion which is "is" in English.

sts:
I understand. That's go=
od.

> > >"There is" =3D "il es", but "It's getting dark" is "id gene no-fo=
to".
> > >Why not "il gene no-foto?". Is there any real "id" that's getting=

> > >dark?
> > *** Good question. ~il~ was a late addition to
> > the Glos=
a lexicon: the authors found the need for that
>indeterminate "there".
>
>B=
y the way, where are the authors now? Do they still develop Glosa?
###
Wend=
y lives in Surry in England: Glosa Education Organisation
P.O. Box 18, Rich=
mond
Surry, TW9 2GE
U.K.
and has just sent me the eight-page printed period=
ical, "PLU GLOSA NOTA."
This is edition 91. If you subscribed to this, you =
would see a lot
more Glosa in action. Unfortunately, Ron Clark is no longer=
 with us.

sts:
Can I receive it in Germany, too? What do I have to do in o=
rder to
receive it? (Ain't sure if have the time to do much more Glosa at t=
he
moment, though.)

>Thank you for all the answers.
>
>Regards,
>Stephan S=
chneider
###
Sorry about using so much English, but I wanted to get more de=
eply
into the theory behind Glosa.

sts:
No problem. :) I had to do the sam=
e. Thank you again for the answers.

Regards,
Stephan Schneider





