---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PEUxRjRIcXAtMDAwRmpZLTAwLnZhYm90LW1haWwtcnVAZjUzLm1haWwucnU+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MDIwMjEyMjkzMy4wMmI3NDJhMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PGRxZTgwait2bWRtQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPiA8RTFGNEhxcC0wMDBGalktMDAudmFib3QtbWFpbC1ydUBmNTMubWFpbC5ydT4=
layout: email
msgId: 649
msgSnippet: '... Yes Vasiliy, Intuitively is the word that applies to Glosa.  However
  it is simplified and streamlined and does not do all of the things polite,'
nextInTime: 650
nextInTopic: 650
numMessagesInTopic: 15
postDate: '1138847266'
prevInTime: 648
prevInTopic: 648
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: beMiU05hT_V7PXwMhKE0tPpCDowm95eVydb6z5mGRirBHDC2itGimwetm81O4I66FwW8AH6FSTmk5MtgWXbik0sItlVT_CuzW4ncfnutGTr9Pk4Y9omAj0DeJ3FJIW_8
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] tri bibli?'
topicId: 620
userId: 147970330
---

At 12:16 AM 2/2/06, Vasiliy Terehov grafo:

>"bibli tri" = third book???
>Intuitively, it seems inconsistent!
>
>I guess it would be better "tri bibli" as "third book",
>coz  an adjective in Glosa should be before a noun.
>This is a pattern in Glosa, therefore such construction would seem more logic.
>
>
>I guess it would be better "tri de bibli" or "bibli tri" as "three books"

Yes Vasiliy,
     "Intuitively" is the word that applies to Glosa.  However it is 
simplified and 'streamlined' and does not do all of the things 
polite, drawing-room languages do: I think of it as a Meta-Language.

     However, you are right there is some lee-way for discussion on 
the complexities of syntax.

     So, if we are to make sense in communication we will need to be 
able to make distinctions between different ways of juggling the 
concepts we wish to communicate.

     a third book
     the third book
     three books
     book three (Book III) in a series

     and
     a three-book series         ......    all need different expressions.

     While you and I might have our own (intuitive) ideas about how 
this can - or should - be achieved, the Internet gives all interested 
parties a chance to demonstrate their own (possibly ideosyncratic... 
or, maybe, cultural) take on what is best for the people of Planet 
Earth, which was the original target population for Glosa.  So, here 
goes from me - a first draft:-

     Bill pa grafo an tri bibli durante 1997.  ...his third book... ? 
...his three books...
     Id es u tri bibli ex Klara ke mi maxi hedo.        ...the third 
book from...
         OR
     Id es bibli tri ex Klara ke mi maxi hedo.           ...book three from...
     U presidenti pa grafo tri bibli pre an gene 
ge-fusili.    ...wrote three books...
     Mi prefere bibli-tri de Tolkein "Anula" seri.         ...book three of...

     Mi fu gaino ma valuta per expande id in u tri-bibli 
seri.   ...into a three-book...

     As Ron Clark always said, CONTEXT is half of the communication 
story; however, it does seem that a special suffix would clear up 
most of the ambiguity.

      Although I have usually avoided adding the language, this might 
be a place to make a suggestion:
          -ieme
          -eme
          -em     All could do the job that  -st, -nd and -th do in English.
The short two-letter affix wins on adding minimal sound ( -AYm ) and 
minimal letters.

     Maybe
       An pa grafo an tetr-em bibli mo anua po-la, durante 1998.

       Seqe anua, an fu publiko u pent-em bibli.

       Mi apreci Klara tri bibli, sed maxi hedo u tri-em.
            OR
       Mi apreci holo Klara tri bibli, sed maxi hedo u tri-em.

     It is hot here - in Australia's summer - and reading emails made 
me sleepy, but in answering your query, Vasiliy, I was fully awake.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell
     P.S. What do other Glosa-pe think about this idea of 
rationalising number and order?     R.
    


