---
authorName: stefichjo
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;stefichjo&quot; &lt;sts@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MDIwMjEyMjkzMy4wMmI3NDJhMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGRzN3JoNitvaWtlQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 656
msgSnippet: '... expressions. Robin, I agree, they need different expressions, but
  they need the same grammar. Sometimes Glosa structures seem to be very arbitrary,
  because'
nextInTime: 657
nextInTopic: 657
numMessagesInTopic: 15
postDate: '1139241318'
prevInTime: 655
prevInTopic: 654
profile: stefichjo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: dwmqL9Njcgdy20YXDwGBJU7jc6E6rkSh7D0I5sbTdeulHC3m_WWxYz3Flo9tYpUiU_EFdlzLS0tdZfcEDzYty3b3Nwe3v2WDAQeR-lFR
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: tri bibli?'
topicId: 620
userId: 86512570
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Robin Fairbridge Gaskell <drought-
breake=
r@...> wrote:
>      a third book
>      the third book
>      three books
=
>      book three (Book III) in a series
> 
>      and
>      a three-book =
series         ......    all need different 
expressions.

Robin,
I agree, =
they need different expressions, but they need the same 
grammar. Sometimes=
 Glosa structures seem to be very arbitrary, 
because no grammatical info i=
s given, whereas it could be possibible.

So, the question is, if "bibli tr=
i" or "tri bibli" is a noun-noun-
phrase or an adjective-noun phrase. I mea=
n "noun-noun-phrase" 
like "Mister Gaskell", where the the second noun is a=
 name or a label.

bibli tri =3D noun + noun -> book "three" =3D third book=

bibli tri =3D adjective + noun -> a book triple =3D three books
tri bibli =
=3D noun + noun -> triple "book" (sounds like a mathematician 
that calls a=
 triple of variables "book", instead of "x", or "b")
tri bibli =3D adjectiv=
e + noun -> threefold book =3D three books

>      Bill pa grafo an tri bib=
li durante 1997.  ...his third 
book... ? 
> ...his three books...

So, I t=
hink it's ambiguous, since "three books" can be either "bibli 
tri" or "tri=
 bibli". A solution (if anyone sees this as a problem - I 
do!) might be to=
 say that "third book" can be only expressed by 
saying "bibli tri", so "tr=
i bibli" _must_ be "three books". (Unless 
one can show me that "tri bibli"=
 might also mean "third book", than 
this is pointless, of course.)

>     =
 Mi fu gaino ma valuta per expande id in u tri-bibli 
> seri.   ...into a t=
hree-book...

This is the noun "tri bibli" (adjective + noun) used as an ad=
jective, 
so that "tri-bibli seri" is "(tri bibli) seri", which is "(adject=
ive 
+ noun)=3Dadjective + noun"=3Dnoun. (Hope you understand my notation.)=


>      As Ron Clark always said, CONTEXT is half of the communication 
> =
story; however, it does seem that a special suffix would clear up 
> most o=
f the ambiguity.
> 
>       Although I have usually avoided adding the lang=
uage, this 
might 
> be a place to make a suggestion:
>           -ieme
>  =
         -eme
>           -em     All could do the job that  -st, -nd and -=
th do in 
English.
> The short two-letter affix wins on adding minimal soun=
d ( -AYm ) 
and 
> minimal letters.

Might work.

>      Maybe
>        An =
pa grafo an tetr-em bibli mo anua po-la, durante 1998.
> 
>        Seqe anu=
a, an fu publiko u pent-em bibli.
> 
>        Mi apreci Klara tri bibli, se=
d maxi hedo u tri-em.
>             OR
>        Mi apreci holo Klara tri bi=
bli, sed maxi hedo u tri-em.

What about "tri-co"? :)
Seriously, why not?

=
That's what I had to add.

Regards,
Stephan Schneider





