---
authorName: syntonica
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;syntonica&quot; &lt;syntonica@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MDIwOTE2MDQ1Mi4wMmI3YWI4MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGRzZXRidis5aXZmQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 667
msgSnippet: Ahoy?  oh dear... more words!  :) Thank you, Robin, for your reply.  It
  was certainly more than I expected.  If you could amplify my understanding of negation
nextInTime: 668
nextInTopic: 668
numMessagesInTopic: 10
postDate: '1139472575'
prevInTime: 666
prevInTopic: 666
profile: syntonica
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Pge3_iTpHCpiua8b85MrYw0RuPCwalmhcNsttR9C1_2vSlCUiM00-kjpLaJRDp0WphRREqtFK8D-2UQGJhI9Af_1aIM0CqLL
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Redundancies'
topicId: 665
userId: 88184315
---

Ahoy?  oh dear... more words!  :)

Thank you, Robin, for your reply.  It wa=
s certainly more than I expected.  If you could 
amplify my understanding o=
f negation and how to use which particle when (or point me to 
a previous r=
eply), I would be most grateful.  I fear I would use euphony to decide (I p=
refer 
the sound of "ne-" over "no-".)

You bring up idiom briefly and usin=
g exact  language to decribe a concept.  Consider if a 
friend calls me on =
my cell phone and asks where I am.  I answer with the statement: "I am 
in =
the hospital."  At this point, there is no context for my friend to hang th=
is statement on, 
especially if he has not spoken with me for a long while.=


Literally, the statement means that I am physically located in a building=
 called a "hospital".  
In English, this statement carries the assumption t=
hat I am sick, as well.  I don't believe 
this would be considered idiomati=
c, however.  (If it is, then this argument is for naught.)  
But, as long a=
s the listener knows what a "pato-do", or "place for the ill" or "hospital"=
 is, 
can I also assume that they will also carry this assumption?  (whew! =
 I hope that is clear!)

Or, in Glosa, should I say:  "Mi es in pato-do e m=
i habe pato." ?  Or, should I duck the issue 
with a verb different from "e=
s"?  "Mi loka in pato-do."  But will my friend still assume I am 
sick? 

I=
 went back and double-checked the "sweet" words against the Core list and f=
ound only 
"sukro" and "gluko" listed, so it would seem the redundancies ar=
en't rampant like I first 
feared. (Yes, I am a purist.  I am the type that=
 would go off and create my own language!  
With mathematical perfection!  =
And end up writing letters to myself. :)  While I agree that 
redundancies =
are not that bad, and add some spice to the language, you state that each 
=
instance has a somewhat different meaning for you, different "flavors," as =
it were.  Isn't 
this just adding back the baggage that an aux-lang is mean=
t to shed?  Where does our 
personal experience of "sweetness" fall in rega=
rds to our cultural experience of 
"sweetness" and the "universal" experien=
ce of "sweetness"?  It's all very maddening!  If I 
learn German, I can cal=
l a native German-speaker on the phone and ask what's up with 
something!  =


I find all of this most fascinating--learning a constructed language that=
 seems to be as 
living (or even more so!) as the English language I was bo=
rn with.  I will start with the Core 
and see where that gets me.

Gratia! =
 
Sintonika

PS.  I learned "You are pulling me out of a tree!" in German.
=

PPS.  I am VERY disappointed that neither root of my name, syn- and -tonic=
 are 
represented in the Core! Who do I write to?  Who's my Congressman?!  =
;)





