---
authorName: syntonica
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;syntonica&quot; &lt;syntonica@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGR0MTNmMituMmp2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 675
msgSnippet: Wow!  Need some air after diving in so deep.  I never realized how many
  concepts in English were expressed in Latin compound words and didn t really have
  any
nextInTime: 676
nextInTopic: 676
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1140068642'
prevInTime: 674
prevInTopic: 0
profile: syntonica
replyTo: LIST
senderId: TVXMzzCE5myeLdq8RQuciAcoZe-INfKmbYeSc42FOzH4BpHteIUQeCKBrdMEnkUrYrOe7skd0cslZrzR6ZEN13tdUXevELxQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Some Observations
topicId: 675
userId: 88184315
---

Wow!  Need some air after diving in so deep.  I never realized how many con=
cepts in 
English were expressed in Latin compound words and didn't really =
have any Germanic 
synonyms. (de-, con-, ex-, etc.)

1.  (centi <> hekto) =
=3D trainwreck!  Don't use extra words when you can let the math do the 
wo=
rk for you.  Let centipedes be centipedes! 
 
100 =3D "centi"=3D"hekto"=3Do=
ne hundred
1/100=3D"verte-centi"=3D"verte-hekto"=3Done one-hundredth

Facil=
i, ne?

2.  I think I get the "ne" vs "no" distinction.  No(n) is the oppos=
ite of something.  "Ne" just 
denies the quality.

Amo              love
No=
n-amo      hate
Ne-amo        not loved, but not necessarily hated either. =
 (The nice way to let your suitor 
down!)
Ne-xeno       not a stranger (but=
 not a friend either); acquaintance
An es ne-xeno.  He is known to me.

3. =
 I don't think the word "zero" hit western culture until the Pope was speak=
ing Italian.  
Hindu/Arabic numerals and the zero (sifr[Arabic]=3D>cypher, =
zefiro=3D>zero) didn't arrive 
until the 11th or 12th century!)  

4.  "Vag=
ona" is definitely from the German, probably arriving 410AD with Alaric and=
 his 
armies.  I would suggest "harma" [Gr.] or "carrus" [L] instead.  Both=
 mean "chariot."

5.  The verb structures still seem a little Western-centr=
ic.  While most moods can be 
expressed, I would suggest adding the followi=
ng verb modifiers:

"dubi"  for a dubitative or a hearsay mood:

qo-lo es F=
red nu-di?    Where is Fred today?  
Fred dubi es pato.        Fred,  (I gu=
ess), is sick.

Irene dubi dice mi; ...    Irene told me (it's hearsay)...
=

"ja" for a cohortive/energetic/counterfactual mood:

Na ja dice glosa!    =
        Let's speak Glosa!
Mi ja pote dice glosa!    (But) I _can_ speak Gl=
osa!
Id ja es boni di!             It's a bee-a-utiful day!

Boni sani a pa=
n!
Sintonika




