---
authorName: williamtbranch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;williamtbranch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGR0MTNmMituMmp2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGR0Mm10aStpMXZpQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 676
msgSnippet: Wow!! This all sounds good to me. I like your idea about dubi. I have
  a question I ve been meaning to ask somebody here. I know the word the can be done
nextInTime: 677
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1140121330'
prevInTime: 675
prevInTopic: 675
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: SC4LkZW46h6h5Ayp2uJER4pXIKVvOEIl75sc5puq9Jr0qC7Sc362r-knMyte-3x72hU8fzhqi9L9WT9uSs-jwdT-7u4E_pkpuLLNx8v6MEw3DA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Some Observations'
topicId: 675
userId: 224099157
---

Wow!! This all sounds good to me. I like your idea about dubi.

I have a question I've been meaning to ask somebody here.

I know the word "the" can be done without. But it seems like it's a lot
of work to say what you want to without it. "The" and "a" are not
perfectly interchangable as in the two sentences, "A reporter and I
walked into the media crowd and a reporter hit me!" and "A reporter and
I walked into the media crowd and the reporter hit me!" both translate
into the following:
Mi e un media-pe pa ambula ad-in un poli-pe de media-pe e un media-pe
bate mi!!
But the two english sentences are not synonomous. The meanings are
completely different. I know that I could re-word everything to make it
say what I mean in Glosa, but the utility of the word the is so great,
Why not include it in Glosa?

Also, are there easy workarounds to the absence of "the" in Glosa. A
Chinese friend of mine says that the word they use for "the" translates
to "that" for instance.

Regards
Bill
--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "syntonica" <syntonica@...> wrote:
>
> Wow!  Need some air after diving in so deep.  I never realized how
many concepts in
> English were expressed in Latin compound words and didn't really have
any Germanic
> synonyms. (de-, con-, ex-, etc.)
>
> 1.  (centi <> hekto) = trainwreck!  Don't use extra words when you can
let the math do the
> work for you.  Let centipedes be centipedes!
>
> 100 = "centi"="hekto"=one hundred
> 1/100="verte-centi"="verte-hekto"=one one-hundredth
>
> Facili, ne?
>
> 2.  I think I get the "ne" vs "no" distinction.  No(n) is the opposite
of something.  "Ne" just
> denies the quality.
>
> Amo              love
> Non-amo      hate
> Ne-amo        not loved, but not necessarily hated either.  (The nice
way to let your suitor
> down!)
> Ne-xeno       not a stranger (but not a friend either); acquaintance
> An es ne-xeno.  He is known to me.
>
> 3.  I don't think the word "zero" hit western culture until the Pope
was speaking Italian.
> Hindu/Arabic numerals and the zero (sifr[Arabic]=>cypher,
zefiro=>zero) didn't arrive
> until the 11th or 12th century!)
>
> 4.  "Vagona" is definitely from the German, probably arriving 410AD
with Alaric and his
> armies.  I would suggest "harma" [Gr.] or "carrus" [L] instead.  Both
mean "chariot."
>
> 5.  The verb structures still seem a little Western-centric.  While
most moods can be
> expressed, I would suggest adding the following verb modifiers:
>
> "dubi"  for a dubitative or a hearsay mood:
>
> qo-lo es Fred nu-di?    Where is Fred today?
> Fred dubi es pato.        Fred,  (I guess), is sick.
>
> Irene dubi dice mi; ...    Irene told me (it's hearsay)...
>
> "ja" for a cohortive/energetic/counterfactual mood:
>
> Na ja dice glosa!            Let's speak Glosa!
> Mi ja pote dice glosa!    (But) I _can_ speak Glosa!
> Id ja es boni di!             It's a bee-a-utiful day!
>
> Boni sani a pan!
> Sintonika
>



[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


