---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGR0Z3R0bStpNHFqQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 687
msgSnippet: 1 Now the whole world had one language and a common speech. 2 As men moved
  eastward, [a] they found a plain in Shinar [b] and settled there. 1 un holo munda
  pa
nextInTime: 688
nextInTopic: 689
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1140587254'
prevInTime: 686
prevInTopic: 0
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: vQWtelX1SUqMw-k4ExTbJCduXM_s3EzmH50L4cCv5HpoEwc0uBpoImbxNy5PRgMLolRffVjCxfNzLICXrsDiiJyG5_MVbecQ8SQgf04mwiWJBWcw3w
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: Babel text for Glosa
topicId: 687
userId: 224099157
---

1 Now the whole world had one language and a common speech. 2 As men 
moved=
 eastward, [a] they found a plain in Shinar [b] and settled 
there. 

1 un =
holo munda pa habe mo lingua e un komuni glosa. 2 Tem plu andro 
pa iti est=
, mu pa basi un plati-lo intra Shinar e pa decide la.

3 They said to each =
other, "Come, let's make bricks and bake them 
thoroughly." They used brick=
 instead of stone, and tar for mortar. 4 
Then they said, "Come, let us bui=
ld ourselves a city, with a tower 
that reaches to the heavens, so that we =
may make a name for 
ourselves and not be scattered over the face of the wh=
ole earth." 

3 Mu pa dice ad alelo, "Veni e na fu face plu brika e kura fu=
rna 
mu." Mu pa uti brika vice lito; e bitumino te brika glu. 4 Po-co mu 
p=
a dice, "Veni e na fu face un civita; ko un turi te veni ad un 
urani; pro =
face na establi e ne es difusi dia un facia de un holo 
mundo."

5 But the =
LORD came down to see the city and the tower that the men 
were building. 6=
 The LORD said, "If as one people speaking the same 
language they have beg=
un to do this, then nothing they plan to do 
will be impossible for them. 7=
 Come, let us go down and confuse 
their language so they will not understa=
nd each other." 

5 Anti-co un KIRIO pa veni kata ad oku un civita e un tur=
i; ke un 
plu andro pa es face. 6 Un KIRIO pa dice, "Postula iso mo demo di=
ce 
un idem glosa; mu pa proto ad akti u-ci, po-co ne-ra mu intriga ad 
akt=
i fu es no-posi pro mu. 7 Veni, en na fu ki kata e konfusi mu 
lingua ka-co=
; mu fu ne logi alelo."

8 seqe-co un KIRIO difusi mu ab la; ad supra pan u=
n mundo; e mu 
pausa face un civita. 9 U-la es u basi; id pa nomina, Babel;=
 ka un 
KIRIO konfusi un lingua de holo mundo la. Un KIRIO difusi mu ab la;=
 
ad supra pan un mundo.

8 So the LORD scattered them from there over all =
the earth, and they 
stopped building the city. 9 That is why it was called=
 Babel [c] =97
because there the LORD confused the language of the whole wo=
rld. 
From there the LORD scattered them over the face of the whole earth.
=
Footnotes:





