---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PEUxRkM4bjQtMDAwSGJ3LTAwLnZhYm90LW1haWwtcnVAZjY0Lm1haWwucnU+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGR0bGw1bCthM2YzQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 690
msgSnippet: Although I m still trying to understand Glosa as it is, I like the flexibility
  your suggestions bring to the language. Glosa still retains its pure syntax
nextInTime: 691
nextInTopic: 691
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1140742133'
prevInTime: 689
prevInTopic: 689
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 0OSCIi2Eef8W0CzxbUSN0qqg51kabsyLNxFhLlswE8Qw99FwAG2jrmgHWw-M9hsb9VQsGGRfllS327kBhW0TtnaBngJB5z0Tp3PRRB9Ubzo6GgyTYA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Kani vora vora'
topicId: 687
userId: 224099157
---

Although I'm still trying to understand Glosa as it is, I like the
flexibil=
ity your suggestions bring to the language. Glosa still
retains its pure sy=
ntax orientation, and nothing existing breaks.It
doesn't seem to complicate=
 anything and isn't that much harder to
learn. Glosa stays clean because th=
e suggestions are optional.

I need to understand language in general bette=
r in order to think of
any cons your suggestions would have.

I also think =
Glosa is the best IAL. I read "The Loom of Language" by
Frederick Bodmer, e=
dited by Lancelot Hogben. Although InterGlossa was
not created at the time =
of the book. The critique of current IALs and
the books suggestion for a ne=
w one captured my imagination. I was
excited to find Glosa actually existed=
.

-bill



--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Vasiliy <vabot@...> wrote:
>
=
> Kani vora vora
> -----------------
> 
> Karo plu glosa-pe! 
> 
> Glosa is=
 the finest IAL now.
> 
> I have an idea of how to improve Glosa 
> and to =
make it greatly more flexible, original and popular. 
> And I want to infor=
m about it all of you.
> 
> Let's look on the simple Glosa sentence, for ex=
ample:
>           
>      Gl: U kani vora u vora.
>      En: A dog eat a f=
ood.
> 
> Here, in the Glosa sentence:
>   First ~U~ is a noun marker (arti=
cle).
>   Second ~U~ is a noun marker too.
> 
> I suggest to refuse of usin=
g ~U~ as a noun marker.
> 
> What if?
> 
> Let's take up ~U~ as a s~U~bject=
 phrase marker (S-marker).
> 
> Further, let's add new marker:
>  ~O~ as an=
 ~O~bject phrase marker (O-marker),
> wich in most cases may be omitted.
> =

> (It slightly simulates  -o and -on in Esperanto) 
> 
> Further.
> Yet we=
 have the verb primitives:  NU, DU, PA, FU, NE and ES, EQI,
> all of wich i=
ndeed play a role of verb phrase markers (directly or
indirectly).
> 
> We =
can add to them else a new optional verb marker JE, 
> which is nor tense p=
article nor aspect particle, 
> and usually it may be omitted.
> 
>  jE is =
a v~E~rb phrase marker
> 
> 
> Example:
> (~DU~ have a function of the verb=
 marker here)
> 
> U kani du vora o vora.  
> S      V       O
> 
> 
> Exam=
ple with the marker JE: 
> U kanu je vora o karni =3D U kani vora o karni
>=
 S      V       O  
> 
> 
> As it have been said, any marker may be omitted=
, 
> if such omission don't break a sense:
> 1) usually in order S-V-O, bec=
ause it's the priority order
> 2) ~O~ should be omitted before prepositions=
 (a, ex, ab, de, epi ...).
>     Compare it with using -on in Eo,- 
>     o=
therwise ~O~ (as the S-marker in Glosa) may be explained as an
Undefinite P=
reposition.
> 3) in present tens (especially if V-phrase begin with du, nu,=
 ne,
es, etc.).
> 
> 
> Examples in the order S-V-O (8 possible combination=
s):
> 
> U kani vora o vora. 
> U kani vora vora.
> U kani je vora o vora.
=
> U kani je vora vora.
> Kani je vora o vora.
> Kani je vora vora.
> Kani v=
ora o vora.
> Kani vora vora. 
> 
> All combinations are permitted, 
> equa=
l and adequate with whole context of this exemplary sentence.
> 
> 
> ! A s=
entence may have a FREE ORDER 
> (as in slavic languages or in Eo).
> It's =
fine for poetry and prose.
> 
> Examples:
> 
> U kani vora o vora. (S-V-O) =

> U kani du vora o vora. (S-V-O)
> O vora u kani vora. (O-S-V)
> O vora u =
kani du vora. (O-S-V)
> Du vora o vora u kani. (V-O-S)
> Du vora u kani o v=
ora. (V-S-0)
> Vora u kani o vora.  (V-S-O)
> ... etc. (other combinations)=

> 
> 
> Let's calculate how many versions have this exemplary sentence.
> =
48 (!)
> Some of versions lose the meaning  
> (vora kani vora,  vora vora =
karni...),
> but majority of them are possible.
> The loss isn't a problem =
indeed.
> 
> It gives new possibilities for poets and novelists!
> 
> Omiss=
ions before conjectives: three examples.
> (Parenthesis designate that mark=
er may be omitted. 
> Square parenthesis designate that marker must be omit=
ted.)
> 
> 
> 1) (U) kani (je) es ge-bate [o] ex andra:
>     U kani es ge-=
bate ex andra (JE is omitted also)
> 
>     Here we take up that  ~U kani~ =
 is a Passive Subjec, 
>     it isn't a Reverse Object, - compare with Eo.
=
> 	
> 2) (U) plu kani (je) es ge-bate [o] ex andra:
>     Plu kani es ge-ba=
te ex andra (U and JE are omitted also),
> 
>     (!): 
>     U plu kani es=
 ge bate ex andra,
>     because in this scheme ~U~ is a subject marker, 
>=
     but isn't a singular article.    
> 
> 3) (U) kani (je) es ge-bate [o]=
 ex plu andra:
>     Plu kani es ge-bate ex plu andra (U and NU are omitted=
 also),
> 
>     May be: Kani es ge-bate ex plu andra    
> 
> 
> The S-mar=
ker ~O~ must be omitted if S-phrase has a preposition.
> Any preposition ha=
s an implicit function of S-marker, as a fact, in
any language.
> 
> 
> 
> =
Another example:
> 
>  (U) Mi (du) vidi (o) tu
> 
>   Equal versions:
> 
> =
   Mi vide tu
>    Mi vide o tu
>    O tu u mi vide, etc.
>  
> Examples:
>=
 
> An grafo o poesi in Glosa. =3D An o poesi in Glosa je grafo. =3D An o
p=
oesi in Glosa du grafo.  =3D etc.    
> An pa dromo trans via. =3D Trans vi=
a u an dromo. =3D  etc. 
> 
> 
> Future:
> 
> Fu setimana mi visita Nice.  =

> (O fu setimana u mi visita o Nice.
> O fu setimana u mi fu visita o Nice=
.
> Fu setimana u mi visita o Nice...)
> 
> Fe ne fu visita o sporta-do.
> =
O sporta-do u fe ne fu visita...
> 
> 
> Past:
> (U) an  _pa_ grafo (o) poe=
si.
> 
> 
> 
> In this scheme, in subject phrase the words U-LA and U-CI 
>=
 should be modified to LA and CI, or to O-LA and O-CI.
> (It's better to si=
mplify them to CI and LA for all pfrases)
> 
> QUOTE (improved)
> "Na pa ve=
ni a Bombai pre tetra di. Klima es o fo fo termo! 
> Hotel es boni, fago-ma=
 habe o fo boni gusta. 
> Panto-pe es ami. Mi fo amo o ci landa." 
> 
> And=
 further. Let's add else new marker ~i~, 
> which would be used before any =
phrase.
> 
> 
> (U) andro [;](qi) tu (nu) vide [,](i) vide (o) tu.
>   
>  =
 U andro qi tu vide i vide tu.
>   alo
>   U andro qi tu nu vide i vide tu.=

>   alo
>   Andro qi tu nu vide i vide o tu.
>   alo
>   Andro tu nu vide =
i vide o tu.
>   .... (other possible combinations)
> 
> in past tense: 
> =
Andro (qi) tu pa vide i pa vide tu.
> Pa vide o tu u andro qi tu pa vide.
>=
 I pa vide tu u andro qi tu pa vide.
> I pa vide tu u andro tu pa vide.
> .=
....
> 
> (~;~ and ~,~ would be omitted)
> 
> The marker i may be used for =
verb adverbs too.  
> 
> The new markers may be used to designate a logic s=
tress (emphasis):
> 
> An pa grafo o poesi. (What he wrote?)
> An je pa gra=
fo poesi. (What he did?)
> U an pa grafo poesi.  (Who wrote a poetry?)
> 
>=
 Plu kani es ge-bate o ex andra. (Who do this?)
> 
> 
> 
> 
> What you thin=
k about this idea?
> 
> 
> Vasiliy B. Terehov
> Sochi city, Russia
>





