---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQzRkVGMkUwLjMwNjAwMDRAZWlrZXByZXVzcy5kZT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGR0dWZqZis1MjBqQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 693
msgSnippet: Hi All, I have to say after some thought and research that I agree with
  Eike. The strength of Glosa is its straightforward syntax.(I still have much to
  learn
nextInTime: 694
nextInTopic: 694
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1141031343'
prevInTime: 692
prevInTopic: 692
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: zQ0f3ayQ2MLrYRTUvoW0JWz46luUc9h9kr5jqgeMQdjpI3OJ0cXCCgJfQcYeXQmoVBn9t53MKe6nT2Fvq7DML7FBqB8MumXV3x8FS6UpEXTpRsEufg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Kani vora vora'
topicId: 687
userId: 224099157
---

Hi All,

I have to say after some thought and research that I agree with Ei=
ke.
The strength of Glosa is its straightforward syntax.(I still have much
=
to learn in this regard.)

Below is an excerpt from Rick Harrison's sight,
=
http://www.rickharrison.com/language/optimal.html

He pretty much mirrors w=
hat Eike and the book, "The Loom of Language"
have to say about syntax. I s=
ee no problem with using the proposed
syntax rules for artistic expression,=
 personal use, etc; However, It
would not serve the Glosa language if it we=
re an official part of it
in my opinion.

Regards,
Bill


 6. Grammar

6.1 =
simplicity

As the great linguist Otto Jespersen observed, "That language r=
anks
highest, which goes farthest in the art of accomplishing much with
lit=
tle means, or in other words, which is able to express the greatest
amount =
of meaning with the simplest apparatus."

6.2 syntax

6.2.1 the need for a =
planned syntax

Much of the complexity in natural languages exists in the r=
ealm of
syntax (the rules that govern the arrangement of words and phrases
=
within a sentence). The English sentence "our dog's barking indicated
the p=
resence of an intruder" contains 9 words which could,
theoretically, be arr=
anged in 362,880 different combinations, but only
one of those combinations=
 is grammatical and conveys the intended meaning.

Unfortunately the design=
ers of many proposed IALs have not considered
the difficulties that can be =
caused by a poorly-designed syntax, or by
the lack of any plan at all. In s=
ome cases, they have refused to spell
out their rules of syntax, claiming t=
hat the arrangement of words in
their languages would be "natural" or "intu=
itive." This invariably
means that it is "natural" to those who have the sa=
me native language
as the IAL designer, and not to others. The syntax that =
comes
"intuitively" to a speaker of English is quite different from that
wh=
ich seems "intuitive" to a speaker of Bengali or Japanese.

There are forma=
l (objective) techniques for specifying the number of
ways in which words c=
an be combined to create grammatical phrases in
any given language. A descr=
iption of a typical natural language's
syntax, complete with all of its irr=
egularities and variations, might
contain thousands of production rules. In=
 order to conform to our
design goals, the syntax of an optimal IAL must ha=
ve a simple,
predictable, easily learned and thoroughly described syntax.

=
6.2.2 the SVO approach

Linguists have attempted to classify natural langua=
ges based on the
arrangement of subject (S), verb (V) and object (O) in sim=
ple
declarative sentences. (Granted, this approach has some flaws: many
lan=
guages are difficult to classify or appear to be in a state of
transition f=
rom one category to another.) There are six possible
orderings: VSO, SVO, S=
OV, VOS, OVS, OSV. Most of the world's languages
fit within the first three=
 categories, placing the subject before the
object. SVO is the most common =
word order in the world's predominant
languages, and is notably common in n=
atural languages which are used
as interlinguas between different language =
groups (e.g. English,
French, Swahili, Indonesian).

A language with a rela=
tively strict SVO ordering does not require the
use of inflections or marke=
r words to distinguish subject from object.
The listener or reader can begi=
n to interpret a sentence before
reaching its end, which is not true of lan=
guages that have free word
order, in which the recipient must wait for the =
entire sentence to
arrive and then must mentally unscramble the various ele=
ments before
comprehension can begin. Some linguists feel there is a link b=
etween
grammatical structures and the ease with which the brain can interpr=
et
sentences. "The perceptual advantage of SVO languages is the ready
ident=
ification of subjects and objects, which are separated (by verbs)
in SVO bu=
t not SOV or VSO languages. It might also be mentioned that
English tends t=
o have topics in sentence-initial position... Subject
and topic will often =
coincide, a coincidence that apparently enhances
processibility, especially=
 when the subject is also the semantic
agent." {8} Therefore it is reasonab=
le to advocate an SVO syntax for
an IAL, or the more flexible option of all=
owing any sequence in which
subject precedes object (SVO/SOV/VSO). However,=
 this still leaves many
questions unanswered, such as: Should adjectives pr=
ecede or follow the
nouns which they modify? Prepositions or postpositions =
(or neither)?
And so forth.

6.2.3 configurational or inflectional?

There =
is a larger question to be considered: should the roles of the
verb's argum=
ents be indicated by word order or by overt markers (such
as noun declensio=
n or "case tags")?

Jason Johnston states there is much evidence to indicat=
e that word
order is the most natural and efficient choice, "including the =
fact
that the words have to come in some specific order anyway, so that the=

order may as well signal something useful (a point due, I believe, to
Jesp=
ersen), and the fact that all pidgins and creoles are strictly
configuratio=
nal (as is still, for what it's worth, the underlying
logical structure of =
all languages according to Noam Chomsky)." {3}

Sometimes we hear the asser=
tion that an inflectional case-marking
system and free word order are neces=
sary to facilitate poetry and
literature. This claim seems to be contradict=
ed by the fact that
Chinese has no inflections to mark cases but is neverth=
eless
powerfully expressive, as demonstrated by its 2000-year history of
un=
surpassed poetry and literature.

There is evidence to indicate that the de=
clension of nouns and
adjectives is difficult for many people to master. St=
udies discussed
in the newsletter of the Esperantic Studies Foundation indi=
cate that
American students of Esperanto at the intermediate level have
dif=
ficulty using the accusative case flexion correctly. There is
corroborating=
 testimony from Chinese Esperantists {9} and those who
have taught Esperant=
o in East Asia. {10}

Because inflectional case-marking is not strictly nec=
essary, and
because it provides questionable benefit in return for the sign=
ificant
difficulties it causes, we must conclude that it is not desirable i=
n
an optimal IAL. (The same principle can be applied to mandatory
marking o=
f tense, definiteness, and number; but these are not
syntactic issues.)

6.=
2.4 a minimalist approach

If simplicity and consistency are viewed as the =
main objectives in IAL
syntax design, the best available choice might be a =
purely
right-branching VSO syntax in which heads always precede their
modif=
iers. Morneau {11} demonstrates that it is possible to design a
syntax of t=
his type that can perform all the communicative tasks
needed in a human lan=
guage with fewer than two dozen context-free
production rules.

6.2.5 attac=
hment ambiguities

Consider the phrase "little girls' school." It is not cl=
ear whether
the adjective "little" modifies "girl" or "school" or, possibly=
, both
items. Now consider the sentence "Men don't talk about their
relatio=
nships with each other." Does this mean that men don't talk to
one another =
about relationships, or does it mean they don't talk to
anyone about the re=
lationships that they have with their fellow-men?
These are examples of att=
achment ambiguities, situations in which
there is no formal mechanism avail=
able to determine which item a
modifier (such as an adjective or prepositio=
nal phrase) is meant to
modify. Sometimes the context of the entire convers=
ation or text
provides enough information to indicate which meaning was int=
ended,
but very often it does not.

Attachment ambiguities often go unnotic=
ed in casual conversation.
However, they can be a significant cause of misu=
nderstandings in
contracts, technical instruction manuals, laws, and other =
types of
communication that require precision. People translating material =
from
one language to another =96 a scenario in which an IAL might frequentl=
y
be involved =96 often must expend a lot of time and mental energy trying
=
to interpret such ambiguous phrases. Many computerized text analysis
system=
s cannot cope with attachment ambiguities; they must pause and
ask for huma=
n assistance in interpreting the material. For these
reasons, an optimal IA=
L's syntax should be designed in a way that
reduces or eliminates such ambi=
guities.

6.3 gender

One factor which complicates the learning of language=
s such as German
is the need to memorize the arbitrary gender of every noun=
. Such an
unpredictable feature would not be acceptable in an optimal IAL.
=

6.4 transitivity

In some constructed languages, it is necessary to memori=
ze whether a
verb is inherently transitive or intransitive, and affixes are=
 used to
convert transitive verbs to intransitive and vice versa. (And when=

transitive verbs are derived from inherently intransitive ones, it is
not =
always clear whether the resulting word means "do activity X to Y"
or "caus=
e Y to engage in activity X.") Having to memorize a verb's
arbitrary transi=
tivity is an unnecessary burden, just as having to
learn the arbitrary gram=
matical gender of a noun would be. Therefore
an optimal IAL should form tra=
nsitive, intransitive and causative
verbs in some completely regular, predi=
ctable and well-defined manner.



-- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Eike Pr=
eu=C3=9F <mail@...> wrote:
>
> Hi all,
> I am very suspicious of the propos=
ed kind of flexibility.
> It is one of the things that turned me away from =
learning esperanto.
> Let me give you 'my two cents':
> 
> Flexibility in s=
entence structure is great for
> a) learning to write/speak a language, and=

> b) poets
> because you can write the way you are already used to from yo=
ur mother
> language.
> My impression is, that the latter is one of the rea=
sons for the
> popularity of esperanto. There seem to be many creative peop=
le in the
> community, that produce a large amount of texts.
> 
> Unfortuna=
tely, the flexibility makes learning to read/understand harder.
> Every sen=
tence you read has a different structure. The reader always has
> to adapt =
to the way of the writer. The 'object-marker' gives the writer
> the illusi=
on that she doesn't need to care about structure, because the
> marker clar=
ifies everything. So, sentences tend to become a mess.
> I tried to read a =
discussion thread in esperanto with help of a
> dictionary, after taking 6 =
(or 8?) lessons of the freely available
> learning program over a month or =
so. I gave up, partly because it took
> me so long to find out which object=
 belonged to which subject and verb
> in the lots of very long sentences I =
found there...
> 
> I don't think flexibility in sentence structure would d=
o glosa good.
> Better than flexibility, in my opinion, would be a clearer =
definition of
> what the sentence structure in glosa actually is/should be.=
 Plus a way
> to seperate parts of the sentence, so I like the idea of a 'n=
eutral'
> verb marker very much.
> 
> Saluta, Eike
> 
> Vasiliy wrote:
> [s=
nip]
> > I have an idea of how to improve Glosa 
> > and to make it greatly=
 more flexible, original and popular. 
> [snip]
> I agree on the flexibilit=
y and popularity part. Originality, well, all
> the esperanto derived langu=
ages, esperanto, ido, etc, use an
> 'object-marker' to gain flexibility in =
sentence structure, so it
> wouldn't be very original, would it? :-)
>




=

