---
authorName: Kevin Smith
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kevin Smith&quot; &lt;lingua@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGRzY2FmMytzbnZ0QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGUwYm9mays4dTU5QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 714
msgSnippet: '[I posted a message like this a couple days ago, but it seems to have
  gotten lost somewhere. Possibly awaiting moderation, since I sent it right before'
nextInTime: 715
nextInTopic: 722
numMessagesInTopic: 10
postDate: '1143563572'
prevInTime: 713
prevInTopic: 668
profile: kevinbsmith
replyTo: LIST
senderId: m-pMpK9jvfC98DkkBLpwuh5s28z1UwqEHa_c05CR6I4suEjxhO5InK3qB6MZyCrHbdzRd7bmOebWeNPnrTMbP4X9eNS6sg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: true
title: 'Re: Redundancies'
topicId: 665
userId: 155310954
---

[I posted a message like this a couple days ago, but it seems to have
gotte=
n lost somewhere. Possibly awaiting moderation, since I sent it
right befor=
e subscribing to this group.]

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "syntonica=
" wrote:
>
> Ave panto-pe!  I am new to Glosa and find I am attracted to it=
 
> because of its simplicity and charm.  However, delving into 
> the voca=
bularies, there seem to be non-sensical redundancies.  

I raised several s=
imilar issues about 5 years ago, and did quite a bit
of work creating a "cl=
eaned up" version of Glosa. Here is snapshot
archive:

  http://mysite.wana=
doo-members.co.uk/glosa

As you can see, I had many of the same concerns as=
 you. At that time,
there seemed to be no process to clarify or improve the=
 official Glosa
language, including creating an official "core" vocabulary.=
 When I
realized that it would be almost impossible to get any of my
sugges=
tions adopted as "official", I gave up on it and found an
different IAL tha=
t was "good enough" and had a process for improvement.

A couple nights ago=
, I looked at glosa.org and the mailing list for
the first time in years. G=
losa is still a beautiful language, with a
few (very) rough edges. If there=
 were some process to clarify and
simplify the official core language, I mi=
ght re-join the community. 

Has anything changed?

Kevin

P.S. Some contex=
t about me: My focus is on written communication,
because I believe that is=
 where IAL's have the most promise. I believe
the perfect niche for IAL's i=
s when someone can author and publish
text once and have it be read thousan=
ds (or millions) of times. I like
simplicity. I don't expect perfection, an=
d understand tradeoffs, but
dislike pointless imperfections. Once an IAL is=
 "good enough", it
should be kept fairly stable. Endless tweaking is disast=
rous.








