---
authorName: Kevin Smith
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kevin Smith&quot; &lt;lingua@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIwMDYwMzI3MTkwMTAxLjIyMzU2LnFtYWlsQHdlYjMyODA0Lm1haWwubXVkLnlhaG9vLmNvbT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGUwYnFnbCt0NjBzQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 715
msgSnippet: '... True. The internet is cheaper, faster, and more global than any other
  medium I can think of. It also connects well with younger folks, who are (perhaps)'
nextInTime: 716
nextInTopic: 716
numMessagesInTopic: 14
postDate: '1143565653'
prevInTime: 714
prevInTopic: 713
profile: kevinbsmith
replyTo: LIST
senderId: f6dX8dT-1iyRWh8_aaIbqjGGAiXyStabk78A2wUylCISrfTP4BZW7TFhLVnEEhXcrhMOGf-okz1R3Mqw1cAzjpEMumi_eA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: true
title: 'Re: The Glosa Killer App'
topicId: 702
userId: 155310954
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Wayne S. Rossi" wrote:
> I think a conla=
ng's success relies on getting
> it out in the popular consciousness, throu=
gh things like 
> literature, magazines, music, and film.  

True. The inte=
rnet is cheaper, faster, and more global than any other
medium I can think =
of. It also connects well with younger folks, who
are (perhaps) more likely=
 to try something radical. Thus, I would
focus on it rather than paper book=
s, magazines, music, or film.

I also think that translating practical info=
rmation is more valuable
than translating material for art and entertainmen=
t. The biggest
motivation to learn Glosa is to obtain useful information th=
at is not
available in the reader's native language. I'm not sure many peop=
le
would be motivated to learn Glosa just to gain access to poetry or
ficti=
on.

> Glosa, like several other IAL projects
> I think could develop into =
something major given a chance, 
> seems mostly to be the stuff of introver=
ted journals.  
> At this point, even a blog in the language would be a big=
 step.

True. It is much easier to translate text than to write original te=
xt.
If there were a few sources of news, opinion, or culture that were
free=
ly available to be translated, that could be the starting point
for a Glosa=
 blog. These days, there may be some great blogs that use a
Creative Common=
s license that would permit translation into Glosa.

Translating a steady s=
tream of material from French, Russian, Chinese,
or whatever would be a pow=
erful demonstration of IAL benefits. Doing
the same for English sources wou=
ld still be valuable, although not as
much because English is so widely kno=
wn.

Imagine if 10 Glosa-pe each translated one blog posting or article
eac=
h week, and posted them all to the same Glosa blog site.
 
Kevin






