---
authorName: sydpidd@aol.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: sydpidd@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDIyNi44ZmI5YTU0LjMxNWZlMWQ1QGFvbC5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 723
msgSnippet: something i ve been thinking about - i ll work on it and simplify etc
  - Thinking in Glosa -  One Method of Translating to G Robin has said  several times
  that
nextInTime: 724
nextInTopic: 726
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1143900117'
prevInTime: 722
prevInTopic: 0
profile: sydpidd1926
replyTo: LIST
senderId: bh1hkDdto52tLskSV6TdgvE0UD81vjQQXFXCk1udrNM9qo83yAB2SpslGrz2Nd8u5QRdtCjZ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] sort nof tutor'
topicId: 723
userId: 137587403
---

something i've been thinking about - i'll work on it and simplify etc - 
 
 
 
 
Thinking in Glosa -  One Method of Translating to G
Robin has said  several times that we ought to think in Glosa rather than 
merely  substituting  Glosa words for those in our own language. I agree and here 
 perhaps is one method of starting.
 
"I like Glosa"
 
This was thought in English, let us try put it in  a more general  grammar.
"I"= concept is the writer, indication by the writer, number is one.  - a 
subject noun phrase singular
"like"= information  added by the  writer, includes the concept of time 
related to the writing of the sentence:-  [now] but also in the past and very 
probably in the future too.  the action  has duration. the flow of meaning is from 
indication section  to  information sections.-  a verb phrase
"Glosa"= more information added by  the writer/ an object noun phrase.
 
Now we think in glosa:-
G phrase order is indication section + info  (action and time) + info 
sections 
or:- subject noun + verb + object  .........
 
"I" -this is a complete noun phrase
time signalled is now and with  duration [d] - "like" - [noun/singular 
signal] [th] "glosa" ......
"i d like  th glosa"
 
BUT
if i use the GID dictionary, we get "mi amo homo efigi simi posi  probabli  u 
glosa" !!!!!!!!
my dictionary derived from GID  gives   "mi du ?ness?ing?ly? u glosa";  
asking for "likeness"  [noun], "liking"  [verb] or "likely" [adverb]
To think in Glosa i ask my  computer "i d liking th glosa" 
and get "mi du amo u glosa"
 
If i work back to English, I get 
"I;me;my    continue  (-ing); -ing (continuous tense) love;      like (love); 
 affection; approve; kindness ;mercy; warm: .. 
a; an; one; the;  any        "Glosa" is not in the dictionary i  have, but 
elswhere i have seen "tongue" and" language"
 
I think that "love" is not the word I want - too strong so I shall change  my 
dictionary to give "pusi-amo" for "liking" 
"mi du pusi-amo u glosa"
 
Perhaps someone can think of a better word.



[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


