---
authorName: Kevin Smith
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kevin Smith&quot; &lt;lingua@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MDQwMTIyMzI0MC4wMmI0MGEzMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGUwbm5xNys3MmtpQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 725
msgSnippet: Hi Robin, and thanks for your reply. ... Unfortunately, I m not sure the
  language is quite ready to be promoted. I still have a few concerns about the
nextInTime: 726
nextInTopic: 736
numMessagesInTopic: 10
postDate: '1143956103'
prevInTime: 724
prevInTopic: 722
profile: kevinbsmith
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Q13gB1of9XkqMptBH2PbK4wGDwS5ZtyP5YLvSxOj6Ic4Cr0HlyT1Xyhc32QMDYE31YcBDCDK9l5fPUbz-Et4LFZ4IwOc9Q
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Redundancies'
topicId: 665
userId: 155310954
---

Hi Robin, and thanks for your reply.

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Rob=
in Fairbridge Gaskell wrote:
>          The difference is that some new thi=
nkers have joined the 
> stayers in the Glosa field, and it looks as if som=
e new thinking has 
> come up.  So, we could be ready to move up from the v=
ocabulary 
> formation plateau, and get a bit more organised about promotin=
g the 
> language.

Unfortunately, I'm not sure the language is quite ready=
 to be
promoted. I still have a few concerns about the grammar/syntax, such=

as verb markers being optional. Endless tweaking is bad, but one round
of =
interactive group tweaking might be good.

>          Likewise, the idea of=
 using one Glosa word per concept in 
> the Core Vocab. would simplify thin=
gs for learners.  However the 
> regular repetition of Glosa words in such =
a "Basic Glosa" will soon 
> lead Glosa-neo-pe to want to take the step up =
to a language that 
> allows synonyms, if not metaphors.

I guess it really=
 depends on what type of material you are writing.
For literature and poetr=
y, you may be right. When you simply want to
convey information, synonyms a=
re purely harmful. 

The problem is: if Glosa has 10000 words, and people a=
ctually use them
in writing, then you can't read Glosa text without memoriz=
ing tons of
words. That's exactly what I want to avoid. I want people to be=
 able
to learn Glosa quickly (<1000 words, preferably more like 500), and b=
e
able to read *almost any* Glosa text. I guess my goals are different
from=
 those of the folks in charge of Glosa.

I believe efficient communication =
of non-fiction material will be the
best (only?) way to make an IAL popular=
, I would like to see an IAL
focus on that market first, and only grow a la=
rge vocabulary after
many people have learned and are using the basic langu=
age.

Just my opinions, of course.

Cheers,

Kevin




