---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDIyNi44ZmI5YTU0LjMxNWZlMWQ1QGFvbC5jb20+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQ0MkZFRjg5LjQwOTA2MDFAdGhlYnJhbmNoaGVhcnRoLm5ldD4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDIyNi44ZmI5YTU0LjMxNWZlMWQ1QGFvbC5jb20+
layout: email
msgId: 726
msgSnippet: 'Hello Sydpidd, I ve been having similar issues as you. Here are some
  of my thoughts. First, each word in the vocabulary covers one concept. Because the '
nextInTime: 727
nextInTopic: 727
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1143992201'
prevInTime: 725
prevInTopic: 723
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: _g69FcPuXyQsa8xGAVFBBBERVJosT8jB2qdFoscQ3C-YFrgjSOmRRmza0PF4nSOY353Cdc_8ghCDt-dZQODbUWU3kQrB2pTNS_pF5QSpLYNJPYusbA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] sort nof tutor'
topicId: 723
userId: 224099157
---

Hello Sydpidd,
I've been having similar issues as you. Here are some of my thoughts.

First, each word in the vocabulary covers one concept. Because the 
vocabulary is small, the area or work that each word must do is large. 
This means that amo does not directly translate as love but rather the 
common concept shared by all these words: love; like (love); affection; 
approve; approval; kindness; mercy; warm (friendly) . I think the 
umbrella concept here is "like". So "Mi du amo Glosa" doesn't actually 
translate to " I love Glosa" but rather, "I like Glosa." If you want to 
be more specific, and say, "I love Glosa.", you can either say, "mi du 
fo amo Glosa" or "Mi du fili Glosa".

I've also been translating random sentences and had a similar issue with 
"fortuna". The GID uses these English words to define it:

chance; casual; destiny; fate; fortune; likelihood
This was very confusing to me because in the two phrases, "lucky dice" 
and "random dice" you have two distinct meanings. "Random dice" implies 
fairness and "lucky dice" are not fair since they favor the user or 
owner. how would you differentiate between "lucky" dice and "random" 
dice, if "fortuna" is used in both phrases? I bought a book on latin and 
greek roots to solve this problem. It turns out fortuna by itself means 
"chance". That's when I realized the Glosa definitions are not a list of 
synonyms but rather a list of words used to illustrate the umbrella 
concept that goes with the Glosa word. The English word "fortune" 
usually implies something beneficial. In Glosa, to imply the same thing 
you would have to say, "boni fortuna". To sum up, I would just advise 
not to view the GID definition word list as a list of synonyms.

Regards,
Bill

>  Robin has said several times that we ought to think in Glosa rather
>  than merely substituting Glosa words for those in our own language.
>  I agree and here perhaps is one method of starting.
>
>  "I like Glosa"
>
>  This was thought in English, let us try put it in a more general
>  grammar. "I"= concept is the writer, indication by the writer, number
>  is one. - a subject noun phrase singular "like"= information added
>  by the writer, includes the concept of time related to the writing
>  of the sentence:- [now] but also in the past and very probably in
>  the future too. the action has duration. the flow of meaning is
>  from indication section to information sections.- a verb phrase
>  "Glosa"= more information added by the writer/ an object noun
>  phrase.
>
>  Now we think in glosa:- G phrase order is indication section + info
>  (action and time) + info sections or:- subject noun + verb + object
>  .........
>
>  "I" -this is a complete noun phrase time signalled is now and with
>  duration [d] - "like" - [noun/singular signal] [th] "glosa" ...... "i
>  d like th glosa"
>
>  BUT if i use the GID dictionary, we get "mi amo homo efigi simi posi
>  probabli u glosa" !!!!!!!! my dictionary derived from GID gives
>  "mi du ?ness?ing?ly? u glosa"; asking for "likeness" [noun],
>  "liking" [verb] or "likely" [adverb] To think in Glosa i ask my
>  computer "i d liking th glosa" and get "mi du amo u glosa"
>
>  If i work back to English, I get "I;me;my continue (-ing); -ing
>  (continuous tense) love; like (love); affection; approve;
>  kindness ;mercy; warm: .. a; an; one; the; any "Glosa" is not
>  in the dictionary i have, but elswhere i have seen "tongue" and"
>  language"
>
>  I think that "love" is not the word I want - too strong so I shall
>  change my dictionary to give "pusi-amo" for "liking" "mi du pusi-amo
>  u glosa"
>
>  Perhaps someone can think of a better word.
>


