---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQ0MzM0NzY4LjQwMjAwMDVAdGhlYnJhbmNoaGVhcnRoLm5ldD4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 733
msgSnippet: Glosa-pe I ve put together an xml flashcard file for the fullrecall software.
  This first file is the 1700 + glosa to english core words. I ve loaded them into
nextInTime: 734
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 1
postDate: '1144211304'
prevInTime: 732
prevInTopic: 0
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: iGld9n0wmYiTEAMomyz6qinPuPx7977SXYeOGuf5Gmfuu_CWs30bTW69KRTdPEZTjERh_rrpIJ0c-m2NGKxph2td9UFK7Qf6uSTmeMacVJv41c4nlg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: flash card xml file for glosa to english core
topicId: 733
userId: 224099157
---

Glosa-pe
I've put together an xml flashcard file for the fullrecall software. 
This first file is the 1700 + glosa to english core words. I've loaded 
them into fullrecall, and everything looks OK so far. You can find the 
xml file at www.thebranchhearth.net/glosa/gls_ad_en.xml .

Fullrecall can be downloaded free or for $19.00 at fullrecall.com . I 
don't know if the cards will work with the free version. This is a great 
program for rapidly memorizing vocabularies for any language. If you 
spend an hour a day you can memorize around 50 words a day. I've been 
memorizing about 20 words a day average for the last four weeks. I don't 
have a lot of time so I spend about 20 minutes a day with the software. 
I'm at close to 600 words. Unfortunately I was using an old core list 
and just realized it. For example rabbit was defined twice in the core 
as well as many others.

This new file I made today I got off of the current GID so the 
vocabulary is up to date.

The fullrecall software uses a neural network to learn about your 
memorization ability and then schedules repetitions to refresh your 
memory at the optimal time. It knows which words you are having 
difficulty with and works those while wasting little time with ones you 
know fairly well. It's amazing how fast you can pick up words with this.

I'll finish making the following card decks sometime later:
english ad glosa core
glosa centra ad english (minus core)
english ad glosa centra (minus core)
glosa mega ad english (minus centra)
english ad glosa mega (minus centra)

