---
authorName: sydpidd@aol.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: sydpidd@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDJlZC40ZDkxZmMzLjMxNjZiNWRlQGFvbC5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 737
msgSnippet: yes - I have a program I wrote in visual basic - I write in my version
  of glosa grammar using english words modified i.e. the/a/an becomes th or if plural
  ths
nextInTime: 738
nextInTopic: 738
numMessagesInTopic: 6
postDate: '1144347614'
prevInTime: 736
prevInTopic: 735
profile: sydpidd1926
replyTo: LIST
senderId: D8BUSFFCOdnSAKle6Zj6PjyoRP3UWTwbm8Rhdo7_byCuPtsmHqFiTkt74wTWe8cXlBv7ADSz
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist]from plantlife'
topicId: 730
userId: 137587403
---

yes - I have a program I wrote in visual basic - I write in my version of  
glosa grammar using english words modified i.e. the/a/an becomes th or if plural 
 ths and put it all through my version of the dictionary and it comes out in  
glosa as below which i was just about to send:-
 
We could have people  working on different approaches to glosa methods  and 
have them used. We could then let natural selection chose and alter  them.
I suspect that when anyone hears a sentence or group of them, they are  
sorted in the brain into structures like general/universal grammars from their  own 
and in my method they are then sorted into a glosa structure. Different  
people will think in different ways. Some people are new to Glosa and need its  
structureto be very clear others will be able to shorten things. The verb "es"  
is an example. I have suggested " du es" is used for the present tense but as  
"es" is very unlikely to be anything but a verb,  "es" alone would be quite  
ckear. However, this adds one more rule to be learned and the more variants we 
 allow, the more difficult the learning becomes.
I shall try to make my method  very basic so that some sort of acceptable 
translation is easily possible. I see  no reason to avoid references to grammar 
as anyone learning another language is  likely to be able to cope. Whether we 
wish to admit it or not we  can all  work with a granmmar from an early age  
 
mi fu tenta te face u mi metodi fo basi funda so ke plu sorta de u cepti  
translati du es facili posi .mi du vide no kausa te evita plu refere a gramatika  
ka uno-pe qi du gene_ski u hetero lingua du es probabili te habe pote te 
vikto  .si na du volu te konfesi permito id alo ne na panto pote te ergo ko u 
gramatika  ab u pre-kron eva 
na posi habe plu demo te ergo ko plu hetero puta de plu  glosa metodi e te 
uti plu metodi .na posi po-co lase u fisika natura elekti te  elekti e te muta 
mu 
mi du kredi ke kron uno-pe du audi u frase alo u grega  de mu ,mu du gene 
sorta in u cerebra in plu struktura homo plu generali universa  gramatika ab u mu 
auto e in u mi metodi mu du po-co gene sorta ad-in u glosa  struktura .
plu hetero demo fu puta in plu hetero via .plu demo du es neo a u  glosa e du 
nece u id struktura te es fo klari plu hetero fu es pote te brevi plu  ra .u 
akti-verbi "es"du es u exempla .mi pa sugesti " du  es* te gene uti  pro u 
nu-tem tem sed ka "es" du es fo ne probabili te es uno-ra sed u akti-verbi  so 
"es" solita sio es holo klari .anti-co anti-co ,u-ci du adi mo ma regula te  
gene-ski e u ma plu varia na du lase ,u ma no-facili u gene-ski du gene-es 
 
the english is a bit stiff/pompous etc so the glosa is too - shall have to  
work on my style


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


