---
authorName: Kevin Smith
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kevin Smith&quot; &lt;lingua@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MDQwODIyNTQwNi4wMmI1OGQwMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGUxOGxwcis0bTUxQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 740
msgSnippet: '... I enjoyed writing more after creating my own ~1000 word core list
  than when I was trying to use any of the other Glosa materials. The resulting text
  was'
nextInTime: 741
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 10
postDate: '1144511099'
prevInTime: 739
prevInTopic: 739
profile: kevinbsmith
replyTo: LIST
senderId: YBgvHUcqY0kouhvMyhmQwKQ95brlMqqg1w_tKM1u_5jxem2WncyPjAlvw_Yp_PlLIBdF-QyPKZ4ldEWg-6F8GjFxf6akEA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Redundancies'
topicId: 665
userId: 155310954
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Robin Fairbridge Gaskell wrote:
>
> ***  =
I did try writing in Glosa when _Glosa 1000_ was the only 
> available dict=
ionary, and I actually gave up, because such a basic 
> vocabulary proved t=
oo repetitively boring for me to get any joy 
> out of writing.

I enjoyed =
writing more after creating my own ~1000 word core list than
when I was try=
ing to use any of the other Glosa materials. The
resulting text was also hi=
gher quality. I realize that many/most
writers enjoy using a variety of wor=
ds, so I'm unusual there. But I
also believe that any reader who hasn't yet=
 mastered the language
would prefer as few different words as possible. Com=
peting goals. I
think the writer needs to make the sacrifice to make life e=
asier for
the reader. There will never be more writers than readers. A sing=
le
person will never write more than s/he reads (because one must always
re=
ad one's own writing).

>     I tried hard to whip up a "market" for Glosa,=
 but it didn't seem 
> to be there.  Eventually, some whiz-kid will discove=
r Glosa, and 
> realise it is just the thing for his communication need.  U=
ntil 
> then, there is no 'product' to be 'marketed'.  By such time, most 
=
> of us who now have Glosa buzzing around in our heads will probably 
> be =
dead.

Too bad. I still believe that the right "product" with the right
"ma=
rketing" could stand a chance of becoming at least moderately
popular today=
. The internet is a HUGE advantage over attempts to
promote IAL's even ten =
years ago. 

But the product has to be compelling and require minimal effor=
t to
achieve enough mastery to start getting benefits. So far, I haven't
se=
en any IAL focus on those attributes. It appears that those are not
the goa=
ls of the Glosa community at this time, so I'm going to
unsubscribe (again)=
. I'll look in occasionally to see if anything has
changed.

Thanks, and be=
st wishes,

Kevin






