---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGUxYTQzNis1NHRsQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQ0MzkxNjU3LjgwOTA4MDNAdGhlYnJhbmNoaGVhcnRoLm5ldD4=
headers.referencesHeader: PGUxYTQzNis1NHRsQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 747
msgSnippet: Hello Kevin, After staying up all night looking at the three languages
  you referred to, I have a greater appreciation for what you ve been advocating.
  It seems
nextInTime: 748
nextInTopic: 748
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1144591960'
prevInTime: 746
prevInTopic: 745
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: s-_V7AHyiz4WyZHTS4ZJd0el4Ac4wK0S8sEiSi1CPx3GJfp4gPeFlPmKnd4I_OmtEnoB4QwiDa9zfrMPHNXtJcCDArhUCFMBVx7PcEcuk0jJbCR7UQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: minimal vocabulary'
topicId: 743
userId: 224099157
---

Hello Kevin,

After staying up all night looking at the three languages you referred 
to, I have a greater appreciation for what you've been advocating. It 
seems that Tavo and Glo both fit your design requirements. I don't 
understand why you say you've abandoned them.

In any case, boni fortuna in all your endeavors.

p.s. Do you have an email address you might share? I would like to 
possibly share some ideas I've had down the same line as you.

>
> Nothing. That's what I did a few years ago. Aside from the vocabulary
> issues, I found a few syntax/grammar concerns. After a few months of
> serious work, I ended up with a language that had about 500 Glosa
> words, and about 5 changes to the language itself.
>
> But at that point, it's no longer Glosa. It's not fair to Wendy and
> Glosa-pe to claim I'm promoting Glosa when it's not really Glosa. It's
> also not fair to anyone who learns my dialect, because they will not
> be able to read most Glosa text with its thousands of words.
>
> So in 2003 I renamed my language "Glo", implying that it was a
> simplified version of Glosa. But having split from Glosa, I then
> decided to switch from Greek roots to Latin, and chose the new name
> "Tavo". Later, Lingua Franca Nova simplified its syntax to be almost
> isolating (like Glosa), so I mostly abandoned Tavo and just decided to
> support LFN.
>
> Looking back, I think I prefer the Greek roots to the Latin, so if I
> do more work, I'll probably revert to something more like Glo.
>
> To summarize: I can't wholeheartedly support Glosa because:
>
> 1. I am aware of perhaps a dozen *possible* improvements to the
> language which apparently have no hope of being debated and perhaps
> eventually accepted into the official language.[1]
>
> 2. I think that a reader should be able to memorize, or have printed,
> about 500-1000 words of an IAL, and be able to read almost any text
> that claims to be written in that IAL. The main exceptions would be
> technical words in a field. Splitting the language into "core" and
> "full" does not help, unless the non-core words are VERY rarely used.
>
> > You mentioned your aims are different then the Glosa community.
> > I'll bet there are as many different aims in the Glosa community
> > as there are people in it.
>
> Perhaps. But Glosa doesn't seem to fit my goals. An unofficial dialect
> of Glosa doesn't seem to fit my goals either. And a fragmented
> community will have great difficulty promoting the language and
> gaining widespread acceptance.
>
> I'm sorry if I sound negative about all this. I really like almost all
> of Glosa. I am disappointed that it is not in a position to fulfill my
> own ambitions for an IAL. Hopefully I will end up being wrong and
> Glosa (or perhaps some other isolating IAL) will sweep the world.
>
> Kevin
>
> [1] A list of some differences can be found under "Glo structures not
> in Glosa" on this page:
> http://web.archive.org/web/20030704093009/www.qualitycode.com/html/glo-intro.eng.html
> But also note that I abandoned some of these ideas when I moved from
> Glo to Tavo. I think these and other ideas are worthy of dicussion and
> *possible* inclusion in the language. I have an open mind.
>
>
>
>
>
> ------------------------------------------------------------------------


