---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQ0MzkxNjU3LjgwOTA4MDNAdGhlYnJhbmNoaGVhcnRoLm5ldD4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MDQxMDA4MTA0OC4wMmFlZDkxMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PGUxYTQzNis1NHRsQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPiA8NDQzOTE2NTcuODA5MDgwM0B0aGVicmFuY2hoZWFydGgubmV0Pg==
layout: email
msgId: 748
msgSnippet: '... ***  The abandonment of a Planned Language is easily explained: Esperanto
  has almost made it to accepted status after a century; Glosa has been around'
nextInTime: 749
nextInTopic: 749
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1144628589'
prevInTime: 747
prevInTopic: 747
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 64HheuHMA3t7-g-5yBAjmzogcK1HxGcun8C9jicpCgqfJ--IHoN2fTXYFAVG37jCWRVTATSK5obZjcduQWEOXxnfOIu12plsQnw2JpJJ9ihgcrADlZGvovikbk2yTs5t
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: minimal vocabulary'
topicId: 743
userId: 147970330
---

At 12:12 AM 4/10/06, Bill Branch replied to Kevin:
>Hello Kevin,
>
>After staying up all night looking at the three languages you referred
>to, I have a greater appreciation for what you've been advocating. It
>seems that Tavo and Glo both fit your design requirements. I don't
>understand why you say you've abandoned them.
***  The abandonment of a Planned Language is easily explained: 
Esperanto has almost made it to "accepted" status after a century; 
Glosa has been around for a third of a century, and is still not 
'completed'; any new player has to appeal to people with a range of 
linguistic interests, and then has to try to launch through a very 
thick 'glass ceiling'.

e.g.
> >
> > Nothing. That's what I did a few years ago. Aside from the vocabulary
> > issues, I found a few syntax/grammar concerns. After a few months of
> > serious work, I ended up with a language that had about 500 Glosa
> > words, and about 5 changes to the language itself.
> >

And this definitely causes a conundrum for language resarchers like Kevin:
> > But at that point, it's no longer Glosa. It's not fair to Wendy and
> > Glosa-pe to claim I'm promoting Glosa when it's not really Glosa. It's
> > also not fair to anyone who learns my dialect, because they will not
> > be able to read most Glosa text with its thousands of words.
> >
> > So in 2003 I renamed my language "Glo", implying that it was a
> > simplified version of Glosa. But having split from Glosa, I then
> > decided to switch from Greek roots to Latin, and chose the new name
> > "Tavo". Later, Lingua Franca Nova simplified its syntax to be almost
> > isolating (like Glosa), so I mostly abandoned Tavo and just decided to
> > support LFN.
> >
> > Looking back, I think I prefer the Greek roots to the Latin, so if I
> > do more work, I'll probably revert to something more like Glo.
> >
***  Decisions, decisions!
       As Kevin shows, he has sought to solve the problems by working 
alone - or now with Lingua Franca Nova; however, were those who are 
really interested in the improvement of communication around Planet 
Earth to work co-operatively, a sub-group working in the area of 
Syntax-based Language would eventually agree on a 'best 
product'.  This could include the most suitable features of languages 
from the un-inflected group of Planned Languages.  Whether such a 
level of agreement is achievable with the egos, personalities and 
philosophical associations involved ... is another matter.
       After that, of course, we can imagine a play-off between the 
extremely polarised contenders, with the highly inflected Esperanto 
in one corner, and the best product
of the un-inflected group in the other.

       Must there be ultimately only the ONE International Auxilliary 
Language, or can the human race cope with two IALs - to cater for the 
great divergence of psychological types in the world?  I do suspect 
that the reason for such vehement dispute over possible world 
languages is a matter of the balance between right brain and left 
brain dominance within mankind: left-brainers have good memories and 
really like complex inflections; right-brainers prefer to let the 
grey matter do it for them intuitively, and would rather the apparent 
simplicity of allowing hard-wired syntax to produce their sentences 
for them from discrete concepts.  While that last sentence was 
getting too long, it does suggest that Ron Clark and I come from the 
Creative camp; and, on the other hand, inflectors - with good 
memories - are drawn to Esperanto, because they have an 
intelligent/creative balance tipped in the direction of Intelligence, 
and can easily cope with the mental loading of an inflectional schema.

> > To summarize: I can't wholeheartedly support Glosa because:
> >
> > 1. I am aware of perhaps a dozen *possible* improvements to the
> > language which apparently have no hope of being debated and perhaps
> > eventually accepted into the official language.[1]
***  Actually, this <glosalist> Mailing List ought to be the debating 
board for Glosa.
       The trouble seems to be that people, including me, become 
attached to their ideas, and cannot treat the matter objectively.  My 
difference from neophyte Glosa-pe is that I have seen a number of 
failed ploys attempted, and dead ends entered, and retreated from - 
in the process of defining what Glosa is to-day.  I have also seen a 
number of ideas promoted, ones which could, or should, have been 
persued, in the development of Glosa, but were not.
       There has been no serious discussion, with worked examples, of 
the actual grammatical system at work within Glosa; the possibility 
of further, hyphenated inflection-like affixes, like the eighteen 
'category endings' (-do, -pe, etc) has not been explored; no 
centralised book exchange has been set up, to which authors and 
translators may send their new Glosa works; the actual mechanics of 
what constitutes good (or natural, or hard-wired) syntax has not, to 
my knowledge, been explored; a set of protocols for the addition of 
new words to the Glosa lexicon has not been developed; and there is 
no sub-office for the development for Glosa of the wide range of 
technical vocabularies that make up our complex civilisation.

      For example I became very frustrated when I wanted to use a 
Glosa word to cover the English-language concept, "employment".  Un 
the absence of any guidelines - apart from the Greek and Latin 
dictionaries plus Glosa usage - I derived from ~uti~ [(to)use] the 
Glosa word ~utor~.  Right or wrong I reached a pragmatic decision, 
and added it to my dictionary.  We could even be more professional in 
our search for the magic ``Universal Grammar`` and even upgrade our 
efforts from the amateur to the businesslike.

      However, I would like to tell one story of where something was 
done right in Glosa.  A couple of decades ago someone tried out their 
various English-language Tense constructions, and created Glosa 
versions for them using the standard Glosa tense particles: the final 
result is called "Tense Table" and is on the <www.glosa.org> 
site.  But, this original attempt to systematise the use of tense 
particles bumped around the Net from one Glosa learner to another, 
and back again, being added to, and altered, in the process.  It was 
a very rapid, organic sort of process, and no-one can now say which 
bit came from whom.
      IMHO this is the way that all Glosa decisions should be made.
      The table might now be considered to be out of date, and the 
~pra~ [=had] particle which became discarded, might still be 
there.  Frankly, my use of English would be degraded if I could not 
use this `Past Perfect` construction when I need it; similarly I find 
it semantically useful, if not necessary, in Glosa.

e.g.   ~Kron mi pa gene ad an domi, an pra morta.~
       (when   I   did   get  to  his home he had  die/death)
            "When I got to his home he had died."

> > 2. I think that a reader should be able to memorize, or have printed,
> > about 500-1000 words of an IAL, and be able to read almost any text
> > that claims to be written in that IAL. The main exceptions would be
> > technical words in a field. Splitting the language into "core" and
> > "full" does not help, unless the non-core words are VERY rarely used.
> >
***  This is a left-brain type statement.  Some people love learning 
new words, and often, the more the merrier.  If there is a 'core' and 
'advanced' divide, at what number of words is the division made?  If, 
on the other hand, there is a suitable "Learner Vocabulary" and there 
are progressively more wordy learner books written, then is a 
hard-lined division necessary?  I believe that it is between the 
standard, global Glosa and the 'technical lexicons' that the division 
exists.  If I write a treatise in Glosa on nuclear energy, I will use 
the Global lexicon, and I will also use vocabulary from the General 
Science and Nuclear lexicons.  Needless to say such lexicons do not 
yet exist, and are purely constructs of my mind.

> > > You mentioned your aims are different then the Glosa community.
> > > I'll bet there are as many different aims in the Glosa community
> > > as there are people in it.
> >
***  Sadly, in large part, that is how it has been.  If there is more 
generosity of spirit, then much more co-operation is possible.

> > Perhaps. But Glosa doesn't seem to fit my goals. An unofficial dialect
> > of Glosa doesn't seem to fit my goals either. And a fragmented
> > community will have great difficulty promoting the language and
> > gaining widespread acceptance.
> >
***  We'd like to see a written statement of your goals.  Perhaps 
working out a commonly acceptable set of linguistic goals is the 
right place for us all to start.

> > I'm sorry if I sound negative about all this. I really like almost all
> > of Glosa. I am disappointed that it is not in a position to fulfill my
> > own ambitions for an IAL. Hopefully I will end up being wrong and
> > Glosa (or perhaps some other isolating IAL) will sweep the world.
> >
***  What are your ambitions for an IAL?  Agreed with the idea of an 
isolating (un-inflected) being ultimately successful.
       As I have said before, with English as our model of a very 
evolved national language; and, taking the trends in English to their 
logical conclusions, we end up with something very much like 
Glosa.  ((With apologies to some: this is a highly creative statement.))


> > [1] A list of some differences can be found under "Glo structures not
> > in Glosa" on this page:
> > 
> http://web.archive.org/web/20030704093009/www.qualitycode.com/html/glo-intro.eng.html
> > But also note that I abandoned some of these ideas when I moved from
> > Glo to Tavo. I think these and other ideas are worthy of dicussion and
> > *possible* inclusion in the language. I have an open mind.
> >  Kevin
***  I am not as relaxed as I might like to have been in retirement, 
so I have had to budget time for this discussion.  I will read your 
Glo/Glosa differences during the coming week; I do recall your Glo 
from wayback, but need my mind refreshed.

Saluta,

Robin





