---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGUxZ205ays4MzRuQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGUxazQzbitlMmMyQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 759
msgSnippet: '... I ve also been wondering what the general consensus is regarding
  this, since I m pretty new here, but have been too shy to ask. Is Glosa considered
  a'
nextInTime: 760
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 9
postDate: '1144886199'
prevInTime: 758
prevInTopic: 754
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Njoj67pgYjqMUbY7PA3h_1ipSKcB7p1UbKppMDtYmEw5KCBoWxcrE8LazE4Ozk4git-15X4F_2ZzVHdsn81tALk7Jjrw8fOZ3uHt3XxEX4lJfyOoWA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: IAL goals (was: minimal vocabulary)'
topicId: 743
userId: 224099157
---

> Only if this list has the power to change Glosa. It was very
> frustratin=
g a few years ago to propose changes, or debate options,
> only to find out=
 that nothing could change without Wendy's approval,
> and she was not part=
 of the discussion.
> 
> There also seemed to be a sense that Glosa was "fi=
nished" and should
> not be changed further. The "18 steps" seemed to be he=
ld up as proper
> Glosa for all time, regardless of what other changes migh=
t be
> partially adopted. Perhaps I misunderstood.

I've also been wonderin=
g what the general consensus is regarding this,
since I'm pretty new here, =
but have been too shy to ask. Is Glosa
considered a closed book or is it st=
ill open for modifications?

Does anyone know Wendy or her thoughts on this=
?

> 
> First, there must be a basic process in place. Then we could discus=
s
> specific questions and concerns about the language.
> 
> 
> > ***  We'd=
 like to see a written statement of your goals.  Perhaps 
> > working out a=
 commonly acceptable set of linguistic goals is the 
> > right place for us=
 all to start.

I think an ideal language language that is an IAL first mus=
t be
maximally if not ridiculously easy to learn to read. Secondly, easy to=

learn to speak and write in.

Any considerations that don't interfere with=
 the above should go to
making it a beautiful language that appeals to both=
 the right and left
brained, the artistic and scientific, the minimalist an=
d expressionist.

It should be thoroughly tested for a period in various wa=
ys. One
example is for someone to make translations from a natural language=
 to
it and someone else to translate it back. Then compare the
input/output=
. As many different people as possible should do this.
People should active=
ly speak in it fluently before the language is
considered done because ther=
e still may be many hidden flaws.

It's easy to talk theory, but only testi=
ng shows unexpected design
consequences. As such, there should be a willing=
ness up front, to
allow the language to go back to the drawing board to fix=
 flaws.

All concerns are posted in a central document where one by one the=
y
are addressed.

Those who are contributing to its creation should be read=
ing and
studying various linguistic books and anything else pertaining to t=
he
language. This is where a book exchange would be great. If everyone
shar=
ed books and research material, they'd be on the same page when
discussing =
concepts such as grammar, syntax, information theory, etc.

Eventually all =
discussions should be done in the language to allow
international input. Th=
ere could be inert English influences that are
blaringly obvious to outside=
rs. It would be great PR to say the
language was designed internationally u=
sing itself as the medium.

I think Glosa goes a quite a way on this, but j=
ust how far, I don't
know. I'm still learning and don't really have the abi=
lity to critique
it fully. Various oddities or hick-ups turn out not to be =
as I learn
more. (ie. the concept of umbrella idea behind the words) Others=
 stay.

Also, I was up and reading Glosa enough to get a vague idea of what=

was being said within a few weeks. This was much faster then
Esperanto. Th=
is is why I love with Glosa. It also seems to have a warm
homey feel to it.=
 

I don't have any clue in the least how the language was formed as far
as=
 actual testing it out and such. I know of several newsletters
written in G=
losa, and a few stories on the net. but that's about it.

Anyway, 
just my =
2 cents.

bill

> 
> Please see the front page of my Tavo site :
>   http:/=
/tavo.org/
> 
> At the time I wrote that (four years ago), LFN was still a =
fully
> inflected language. Otherwise, it still seems like a good summary. =

> 
> Kevin
>






