---
authorName: sydpidd@aol.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: sydpidd@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDJmZC4zNzI3OTkyLjMxNzI4NWY3QGFvbC5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 760
msgSnippet: I start in english, each function seems to have about 5 different  structures
  and each structure about 10 irregulars. To deal with them in my  program would
nextInTime: 761
nextInTopic: 761
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1145121783'
prevInTime: 759
prevInTopic: 0
profile: sydpidd1926
replyTo: LIST
senderId: sC4ogUj71wz-1ZvKcHfFd7FbQg1P4iA2Cd-vaVATyJKuqQ4aSGLHSCNZ0SyehptghFEVxGYN
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] .computer program'
topicId: 760
userId: 137587403
---

I start in english, each function seems to have about 5 different  structures 
and each structure about 10 irregulars. To deal with them in my  program 
would take much time and effort and as I have had many years to deal  with them in 
my own brain, I simplify the structures into ones that fit easily  into my 
own glosa method.  The words themselves stay in or near english. My  problem in 
translating stems from my very poor memory - the very thing tht the  computer 
is so good at. the official glosa/english have some difficulties in  that a 
concept in one kanguage can lead to several different ones in the other.  I am 
adjusting the dictionary to prevent i t as I use it.
To make progranpm  makng easier, the entries are in lines ending with "]", 
glosa words in use start  with"\", english ones with "*", comments start wth 
";", glosa words that I do  not wish to use start with "+" and english with "#", 
words that the same in  english but can have different meanigs - homonyms - 
have  "?"
*key\klavi]
*kind\?ness?srt?]
*kindness\gentili]
*kindsrt\speci]
The  program reads through all lines so that any repeats etc are picked up 
and shows  the translations in another box. Should it not find a word, it shows 
the word  between two * ..... * .... Kye becomes *kye*
"Th key to his fame was that he  was th kind of person who was always kind".
 
Th key to th he fame vp is tht he vp is th kindsrt ofth  person who vp  is 
always kindness .
U klavi a u an fame pa es ke an pa es u speci de pe qi  pan-tem es gentili . 
 
sid



[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


