---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDJhZC4yZjBkY2U1LjMxN2EwMmFiQGFvbC5jb20+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQ0NDlCRDM5LjQwNTAwMDBAdGhlYnJhbmNoaGVhcnRoLm5ldD4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDJhZC4yZjBkY2U1LjMxN2EwMmFiQGFvbC5jb20+
layout: email
msgId: 764
msgSnippet: Saluta Syd, ... I think this is inevitable with any fledgling language
  or natural. Everyone adopts the language they speak in and uses it the way that
  comes
nextInTime: 765
nextInTopic: 765
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1145683257'
prevInTime: 763
prevInTopic: 763
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 2zcyUqBfkTRHysr01l4dLhXeebTPbCqGgZwurMamg-OKIMwyZISiDkaKQZAC9ZSZKrwqdWnCq7ghr8e_yXW-UCgafl5YwzRC3TBG4cc06-wiuDHFag
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] sort of tutor ..........'
topicId: 763
userId: 224099157
---

Saluta Syd,

sydpidd@... wrote:

> We could have people working on different approaches to glosa methods and
> have them used. We could then let natural selection chose and alter them.
> I suspect that when anyone hears a sentence or group of them, they are
> sorted in the brain in structures like a general/universal grammar 
> from their own
> tongues and in my own method they are sorted from there into a Glosa
> structure. Different people will think in different ways . 

I think this is inevitable with any fledgling language or natural. 
Everyone adopts the language they speak in and uses it the way that 
comes naturally to them. I am curious how those of other languages would 
use Glosa. I have thought of several sentences that seem right in Glosa 
but sound a bit weird in English, particularly adverb phrases put in 
front of the verb.
I like that there is no official Glosa grammar. I've read several places 
on the net disparaging Glosa for this. It is said that Glosa is not 
ready because it has no grammar, or it is basically just English 
grammar. I think this misperception needs to be addressed with the idea 
of Chomky's universal grammar in mind as you mentioned Syd. I am 
teaching my kids Glosa even as they aquire English. I wonder in what 
clever ways they will use the language.

> Some people are new to
> glosa and need its structure made very clear and simple , others will 
> be able to
> shorten things. The verb 'es' is an example I have suggested 'du es' 
> is used
> for the present tense but as 'es' is very unlikely to be anything but a
> verb, 'es' alone could be quite clear. However, this adds one more 
> rule or
> exception to be learned and the more variants we allow, the slower and 
> more
> difficult the learning becomes and the less likely newcomers are 
> likely to
> persevere.

I like the idea of the simple grammar put forward by Robin and others. 
Like you say, it is good for newbies. It may also be good for writing in 
the strict IAL style for training manuals, dictionaries, etc.
Robin addressed this in a previous post. He mentioned starting the 
beginner with a very minimal set of words to learn, and then bringing 
them up to speed with carefully crafted primers and such.
This is something I'm working on. I think learning Glosa can even be 
easier then it already is with the right materials.

fo vale Syd,

-bill


