---
authorName: sydpidd@aol.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: sydpidd@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDNlNC4xMGNmY2IuMzE3YzlkYzVAYW9sLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 765
msgSnippet: 'Imagine a doctor with a seriously ill patient who is rather confused,
  the doctor is english speaking and the patient not so. The doctor must explain to
  his '
nextInTime: 766
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1145783237'
prevInTime: 764
prevInTopic: 764
profile: sydpidd1926
replyTo: LIST
senderId: kp7g1Jk88m5sPDjESzSkfRWnAZSR3EipxH2aEmsUZDtbmsN3D8JoAFpnTJ2vQgYbXpmPfBve
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '12'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] sort of tutor ..........'
topicId: 763
userId: 137587403
---

Imagine a doctor with a seriously ill patient who is 
 
rather confused, the doctor is english speaking and 
 
the patient not so. The doctor must explain to his 
 
patient what his condition is.
They both can use a computer to do some  of the 
 
translation and the computer has glosa as a common 
 
language. The glosa has to be quick and easy to use 
 
and with as few rules as possible and no exceptions
 
Doctor to patient:-
' Heart failure is the term used when the heart 
 
becomes less efficient at pumping blood round the 
 
body, ..... '  . '
The sentence has more than one other embedded in  it.
 
Let us deal with the first one
' heart failure is the term [ ....  ] ' 
 
1] We need to find the subject/indicating section; 
 
it is ' heart failure'. ' failure' is the head/main 
 
word it is singular/one and 'heart' 
 
modifies/describes/ it and makes precise. Glosa 
 
needs an introducing word with number. the number is 
 
one/singular. I shall use 'th'[like the english 
 
'the'/'a'], next follow any simple modifiers [heart] 
 
the end of the phrase is the head [fail] and the 
 
section ends with any complex modifiers [ there are 
 
none here]
so:- 'th heart fail' 
2] Now we need the verb/inform/time  section. That is 
 
simple enough - 'is' but I want each section to have 
 
an introducing word, here present and with duration 
 
'd' [like the english ['do be']
so:- ' th heart fail d is'. An advantage  of 'd' is 
 
in its showing the beginning of the verb and also 
 
the end of the subject
3] We need the object/inform/number section ' th 
 
term '
The sentence in Glosa construction but english words 
 
is:- 'th heart fail d is th term'
 
Translated by the dictionary and program gives:-
u kordi fali du es u  ge-fixa-tem 
 
However, our use above of 'term' is not in the glosa 
 
dictionary! 
Translated back gives:-
th  core heart  fail  failure  d v  be is  th  term

Kordi is both  heart and core, I suggest that heart 
 
becomes 'kardi' in line with medical terminology
'th heart fail d is th  termdef '
'u kardi fali du es u tekno-nima '
Dictionary. *=english,  \=glosa, ;=comment
*term\?def?tim?] .... ambiguous english word - 
 
change it
*termdef\tekno-nima;term plus  definition]
*termtim\ge-fixa-tem;term plus time]
 
 


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


