---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGU3OWRsNytjM3VrQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 794
msgSnippet: Karo Glosa-pe, I ve got temporarily stumped on the te defini project on
  my second word, ad . It s used in various ways in English and I m guessing that
nextInTime: 795
nextInTopic: 795
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1150826983'
prevInTime: 793
prevInTopic: 0
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: jWsbp_cLqYyk8Tix05XnV-uIieUa6cEWxZCJsBrcS9UlLzBwYAQ39dj3t66gxqpQLmo_enD6PT1m3u1s3Tcq6tUea4uDgnSUmbTUDyW3jrpHJ-M6xQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: lexical free grammar and Glosa
topicId: 794
userId: 224099157
---

Karo Glosa-pe,

I've got temporarily stumped on the "te defini" project on =
my second
word, "ad".

It's used in various ways in English and I'm guessin=
g that except for
the "for the purpose" of definition, it is the same. But =
the way it is
used in English is very complex.

I finally concluded that it=
s usage is always implied by the predicate
verb. There are 11,000 verbs in =
English. There are fewer ways that
"to" gets used but the verb always dicta=
tes exactly how and it may
vary with different verbs.

I was hoping that in=
 Glosa, "ad" was limited strictly to uses of
spatial changes just to make m=
y definition easier. I scanned the way
it's used in the various Glosa newsl=
etters on the glosa site and found
that it is used much the way English use=
s it.

I eventually discovered a site on Lexical Functional Grammar which
s=
hed a lot of light on my dilemma. Apparently, verbs dictate a lot
more then=
 how "ad" is used. They dictate wheter or not the sentence
can or must have=
 an object, whether it can or must have a secondary
object and so forth.

A=
nyway, there's a lot more to it then I really have time to put here.
I was =
just wondering if anyone else has considered how LFG "lexical
functional gr=
ammar" is used with Glosa.

I think people of different languages using Glo=
sa could end up
confusing eachother because they will bring over their unco=
nscious use
of LFG from their Lexicon like in the phrase "I threw the man".=
 In
some languages this might mean, "I through to the man." in the same
way=
 in English "I shot the man". Also consider that "I shot the gun"
uses the =
verb differently.

Does anyone have any thoughts on this?

-bill





