---
authorName: Kevin Smith
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Kevin Smith&quot; &lt;lingua@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDJkZC5iN2E0Mjk2LjMxZmU1OTI0QGFvbC5jb20+
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGVhb3RuZys0dWNmQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 802
msgSnippet: '... have not ... the problem, I ... However, there ... seems to ... want  past
  ... introduce the ... I had the same concerns. When I created Glo, a variant of'
nextInTime: 803
nextInTopic: 812
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1154480688'
prevInTime: 801
prevInTopic: 801
profile: kevinbsmith
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 8Xs7RDcJHVGvI4Cqz19Jiff7RZeIqyIgk8yFlk2mXAGuNAOgL0xEzkbhMN5wHzjjfwlUVqd2NN8hv_xJc-20pogwxpZzVg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: heretic grammar'
topicId: 801
userId: 155310954
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, sydpidd@... wrote:
> u
> "Plu bovi vora" =
could mean "cows eat" or "foods of the cow"
> "Plu  bovi pa vora" must mean=
 "the cows ate". I have several times been 
> puzzled   by a glosa phrase's=
 meaning in the present because writers
have not  
> marked  the beginning =
of the time/control/verb part. To get round
the problem, I 
> used  the wor=
d "du" with the english "do eat / did eat" in mind.
However, there 
> is  s=
ome confusion with duration etc. Durante/o, dura, du  . "Du"
seems to  
> m=
ean  "am eating" which usually suggests "at this moment" whereas I
want  "p=
ast 
> + future +present intermitent" - "pa-nu-fu-frakti" ?! 
> i should be=
  grateful if someone could suggest something to
introduce the 
> verb pres=
ent  clearly and briefly.

I had the same concerns. When I created Glo, a v=
ariant of Glosa, I
added several helper words, because I couldn't find anyt=
hing within
Glosa that could solve the problems. I forget why I chose "ca" =
for the
verb marker. Here's an excerpt of my Glo rules:

Glo structures not=
 in Glosa

    * ca - Marks the beginning of the action (verb phrase). 
   =
        For example: 
             mi ca devora. (I eat.)
    * da - Marks =
the beginning of the direct object. 
           For example: 
             =
mi ca devora da frukti. (I eat fruit.)
    * ku - What? or Which? This repl=
aces Glosa's qe and qi. 
           For example:
             ku; tu ca des=
ira da agua?. (Do you want water?)
             tu ca desira da ku kosa?. (=
You want what [thing]?)
    * le - Definite article (the/this/that/these/th=
ose). 
           For example: 
             mi ca devora da le frukti. (I =
eat this fruit.)
    * sa - Indicates posession, like the English 's. 
    =
       For example:
             mi sa femina parenta ca ridi. (My mother l=
aughs).

For me, "ca" solved a serious Glosa problem. The others were minor=

improvements, which I adopted because they seemed more convenient,
clear, =
or better-sounding. I forget why I chose "ca"...probably
because it doesn't=
 sound like other words that might appear in that
location.

Kevin






