---
authorName: Vasiliy
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Vasiliy &lt;vabot@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PT93aW5kb3dzLTEyNTE/UT88ZWFvdG5nKzR1Y2Y9NDBlR3JvdXBzLmNvbT4/PQ==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PEUxRzhHR2ctMDAwSUg2LTAwLnZhYm90LW1haWwtcnVAZjU4Lm1haWwucnU+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 804
msgSnippet: 'I had wrote about this problem in february 2006 (theme of my letter:
  Kani vora vora ). Glosa must be improved, cause this language has vagueness of syntax'
nextInTime: 805
nextInTopic: 807
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1154523370'
prevInTime: 803
prevInTopic: 803
profile: .nan
replyTo: LIST
senderId: KaUsnJ7qCYuFJcvXBejBSe55YaVtyzpHKS-6kzaFArsG6Cw-LH7bdFuSPMnVm3cdJCoLXamma-Qa5PxeeZI
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: heretic grammar'
topicId: 803
userId: 228349511
---


I had wrote about this problem in february 2006 (theme of my letter: "Kani vora vora").

Glosa must be improved, cause this language has vagueness of syntax rules.

Let's compare Glosa  with English:

The cow eats 

There is not a verb marker but in English (!!) we use the suffix ~s~ in the verb.
English have many irregular suffixes and implicit markers. 
Such irregular constructions help to orient in the syntax structure.

If a conlang is 'completely syntax oriented' and have not implicit and irragular 
additional resources, it should NOT COPY English.


In february's letter i wrote about:

Subject marker 'u' (s~U~bect)
Verb marker 'je'   (j + v~E~rb)
Object marker 'o'  (~O~bject)

Also, it's possible to use 've' (VE~rb) as a verb marker,
but it is in use as short 'vesti'. 
Therefor 've' as 'vesti' must be changed (for example) to 'ves' or somehow else. 


Kevin Smith use 'ca' and 'da'.
I think that 'da' sounds better then 'o'.
I don't know what is better: 'ca' or 'je' or 've'.


Kevin, I'd like your ideas! 


~~ A few my thoughts about noun, subject and object markers ~~ 


Articles ('a' and 'the') are used in English as implicit subject and object markers.
For example, article 'the' is used as implicit object marker in phrase "Fill the same",
and as implicit subject marker in phrase "The cow eats" 

Indeed, a completely syntax oriented language 
is NOT in NEED of NOUN marker or any articles.
BUT, it is in GREAT need of subject and object markers.

Therefor, IMHO, the marker 'U' may be move away at all, as well as any others articles.

In february  i wrote of using 'u' as a subject marker, 
but it might confused somebody, 
who earlier had using it as a noun marker (article) in Glosa.

May be 'su' (~SU~bject) would be better?


For example:

Su plu bovi je (/ca) vora da grasti
S'mi ca vora da frukti
(But the marker 'su' may be omitted in it is the fist word of a sentence) 


Using of subject and object markers gives us an oppotunity to use the FREE order of words.

Examples:

Su plu bovi je (/ca) vora da grasti (SVO)
Ca vora da grasti su plu bovi (VOS)
Da grasti ca vora s'plu bovi  (OVS)
Da grasti su plu bovi ca vora  (OSV)
S'plu bovi da grasti ca vora  (SOV)
and so on


And else:

IMHO, any preposition is an object marker by its realy function,
therefore using of construction ~preposition + marker~ is the redundancy.

I think that such consruction must be move away:
Un andra es ge-morda ex u kani. -> Andra es ge-morda ex kani.
An pa dice gratia a mi de u bibli. -> An pa dice da gratia a mi de bibli.  

~~

Examples (modification of '18 steps' examples): 

Mi fu lekto u bibli. -> (S') Mi fu lekto da bibli. 
Mi pa lekto plu bibli. -> Mi pa lekto da plu bibli. 
Mi pa visita u teatra. -> Mi pa visita da teatra.

An pa dice gratia a mi de u bibli. -> (Su) An pa dice (da) gratia a mi de bibli.  
Un andra es ge-morda ex u kani. -> (Su) Andra es ge-morda ex kani.

Mi fu dice Glosa -> Mi fu dice da Glosa


A gono es u posta-teka. -> A gono  es su posta-teka. = Su posta-teka es a gono. (!)    

{'A gono es u posta-teka' is in order OVS in '18 steps' text,
  but WHY it might be correctly,
  if Ashby-Glosa has no free-order resources?}

A proxi gono es u strata-lampa -> A proxi gono es su strata-lampa (in order OVS)
U Teo es mi pastora. -> Teo es da mi pastora. = Da mi pastoro es su Teo.
An duce mi para plu paci aqa -> An ca duce da mi para plu paci aqa = S'an ca duce para plu paci akwa da mi




Vasiliy Terehov
Sochi, Russia

Excuse me for my bad English.


-----Original Message-----
From: "Kevin Smith" <lingua@...>
To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
Date: Wed, 02 Aug 2006 01:04:48 -0000
Subject: [glosalist] Re: heretic grammar

| 

