---
authorName: sydpidd@aol.com
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: sydpidd@...
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDRhNS42Y2FhMzlmLjMyMjVkZmNhQGFvbC5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 833
msgSnippet: Perhaps NSM might have some connection with some thoughts branching from
  Glosa, I had a little while ago about IALs . , I was working on a vocabulary that
nextInTime: 834
nextInTopic: 835
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1156875722'
prevInTime: 832
prevInTopic: 832
profile: sydpidd1926
replyTo: LIST
senderId: ipq8oUxTelpPz9suXO1QX0AnYYGh8wzMd5nc9WlBGOLbMqCz17Rf2Lrrl1SsYp_5fWVEQxVV
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Wow! Natural Semantic Metalanguage (NSM)'
topicId: 831
userId: 137587403
---

Perhaps NSM might have some connection with some thoughts branching from  
Glosa, I had a little while ago about IALs . , I was working on a vocabulary  
that might be useful. I started with 16 consonants and 5 vowels and turned them  
into 80 syllables all of them being CV and numbered from 0 to 79 
 
This automatically excluded clusters that could be difficult to pronounce  by 
some speakers.
First, I used the Roget's Thesaurus of Penguin Books. in  this book's index, 
words have a number which is divided by 80 until the result  is less than 80; 
as one divides, one gets a series of fractions or remainders  i.e 717 gives 8 
77 which
would give "cozu" for  "peace"
However  I was worried about copyright and could get no reply to any 
enquiries so I tried  a method of my own:- meanings were repeatedly divided into 3 - 
concrete(27)/  abstract(18)/ neither, both or unknown(9)
concrete would lead to animate(9)/  inanimate(6)/neither,both or unknown(3); 
animate could lead to plant(2),  animal(1) n,b or u(0). add the numbers 
27+9+1=37 the word so far would be c7 and  v2 ="je"
or  each category could be 0 to 79 leading to a further  category of 0 to 79.
 
***********
posi  NSM  posi habe plu nexi ko plu  puta ke  pa rami ab glosa , mi pa habe 
u pusi  tem pre de plu  IAL  . , mi  pa ergo epi u  verba-lista ke posi es ko 
uti . mi pa sti ko  16  konsono e 5 vokali e pa tropi mu ad-in  80 silabi 
panto de mu pa es   CV  e ko plu nume  ab 0 a 79 
 
u-ci pa automati exklude plu fa ke pa-pote  es no-facili te soni ex  plu de u 
dice pe .
proto , mi pa uti u  Roget    Thesaurus  de Penguin   Books".  in u-ci bibli 
indexi , plu  verba du habe u nume  qi du gene divide ex 80 a-kron u seqe es 
mei  de  80; ka pe du divide , pe du gene u seri de plu  ratio alo resta   i.e  
717 du dona 8 77  qi
du dona "cozu" pro  "peace"
anti-co mi du es ge vexa de  copyright  e  pa-pote  gene no reakti a uno 
qestio so mi pa tenta u metodi  de u mi  auto :- plu semani pa ge itera gene 
divide ad-in  3 - betoni (27)/  abstrakti (18)/ ni , ambi alo  ne ge ski (9) 
betoni sio age duce a vive  (9)/ ge  ne vive (6)/ ni , ambi alo ne ski (3); 
ge  vive pa-pote age  duce a fito (2), animali zoa (1)  n,b   alo  u(0).  adi  
plu nume 27+9+1=37 u verba so tele  sio es  C7  e  V2   ="je"
alo singu kategori pa-pote es 0 a 79  qi  age duce a  u  tele kategori de 0 a 
79.
 
might perhaps help somehow >
 
sid






[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


