---
authorName: John Avis
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: John Avis &lt;jhnavis@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MDkwNTE1NTc1MS4wMmZmNzA1MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQ1MDJCOTFBLjIwMzA1QHlhaG9vLmNvLnVrPg==
headers.referencesHeader: PDRhNS42Y2FhMzlmLjMyMjVkZmNhQGFvbC5jb20+IDw2LjIuMy40LjAuMjAwNjA5MDUxNTU3NTEuMDJmZjcwNTBAcG8ucGFjaWZpYy5uZXQuYXU+
layout: email
msgId: 836
msgSnippet: "Robin Fairbridge Gaskell wrote:\n \n Saluta sid,\n I read through your\
  \ numbers, but missed the connection\n between 877 and cozu .\n As far as I know\
  \ Anna"
nextInTime: 837
nextInTopic: 837
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1157806362'
prevInTime: 835
prevInTopic: 835
profile: jhnavis
replyTo: LIST
senderId: bPgPBcS6DljzbsoGrVbbO3PCShUkvX7yFH4IJBIv_2T6XrnFdolOLmSCCnF_oG66SBg48scDoW79VbH5vx0DkkkhJU4WMg
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Wow! Natural Semantic Metalanguage (NSM)'
topicId: 831
userId: 224088686
---

Robin Fairbridge Gaskell wrote:
>
> Saluta sid,
> I read through your numbers, but missed the connection
> between 877 and "cozu".
> As far as I know Anna Wicsbecker (??) has been around for
> ages and has been knutting her system of categories out - without any
> reference to numbers - and has reached her conclusions very slowly...
> by thinking.
>
> For certain, she saw NO CONNECTION between her line of
> enquiry and Glosa; at least that's what she told me when I contacted
> her around 1990. Possibly, the slow thinking method has allowed her
> neurons to click into place to see that the Glosa "concept language"
> idea is the way she is going. But, I'd not bet on it.
>
> The 'number-language' idea could be useful to computer
> programming communicators, but I don't like its chances of catching
> on with the people in the street.
>
> Habe u Boni Di,
>
> Robin
>
> At 04:22 AM 8/30/06, sid pidd pa grafo:
>

> >Perhaps NSM might have some connection with some thoughts branching from
> >Glosa, I had a little while ago about IALs . , I was working on a 
> vocabulary
> >that might be useful. I started with 16 consonants and 5 vowels and
> >turned them
> >into 80 syllables all of them being CV and numbered from 0 to 79
> >
> >This automatically excluded clusters that could be difficult to 
> pronounce by
> >some speakers.
> >First, I used the Roget's Thesaurus of Penguin Books. in this book's 
> index,
> >words have a number which is divided by 80 until the result is less 
> than 80;
> >as one divides, one gets a series of fractions or remainders i.e 717 
> gives 8
> >77 which
> >would give "cozu" for "peace"
> >However I was worried about copyright and could get no reply to any
> >enquiries so I tried a method of my own:- meanings were repeatedly
> >divided into 3 -
> >concrete(27)/ abstract(18)/ neither, both or unknown(9)
> >concrete would lead to animate(9)/ inanimate(6)/neither,both or 
> unknown(3);
> >animate could lead to plant(2), animal(1) n,b or u(0). add the numbers
> >27+9+1=37 the word so far would be c7 and v2 ="je"
> >or each category could be 0 to 79 leading to a further category of 0 
> to 79.
> >
> >***********
> >posi NSM posi habe plu nexi ko plu puta ke pa rami ab glosa , mi pa habe
> >u pusi tem pre de plu IAL . , mi pa ergo epi u verba-lista ke posi es ko
> >uti . mi pa sti ko 16 konsono e 5 vokali e pa tropi mu ad-in 80 silabi
> >panto de mu pa es CV e ko plu nume ab 0 a 79
> >
> >u-ci pa automati exklude plu fa ke pa-pote es no-facili te soni ex 
> plu de u
> >dice pe .
> >proto , mi pa uti u Roget Thesaurus de Penguin Books". in u-ci bibli
> >indexi , plu verba du habe u nume qi du gene divide ex 80 a-kron u 
> seqe es
> >mei de 80; ka pe du divide , pe du gene u seri de plu ratio alo resta i.e
> >717 du dona 8 77 qi
> >du dona "cozu" pro "peace"
> >anti-co mi du es ge vexa de copyright e pa-pote gene no reakti a uno
> >qestio so mi pa tenta u metodi de u mi auto :- plu semani pa ge itera 
> gene
> >divide ad-in 3 - betoni (27)/ abstrakti (18)/ ni , ambi alo ne ge ski (9)
> >betoni sio age duce a vive (9)/ ge ne vive (6)/ ni , ambi alo ne ski (3);
> >ge vive pa-pote age duce a fito (2), animali zoa (1) n,b alo u(0). adi
> >plu nume 27+9+1=37 u verba so tele sio es C7 e V2 ="je"
> >alo singu kategori pa-pote es 0 a 79 qi age duce a u tele kategori de 0 a
> >79.
> >
> >might perhaps help somehow >
> >
> >sid
> >
> >[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
> >
> >
> >
> >__________ NOD32 1.1739 (20060904) Information __________
> >
> >This message was checked by NOD32 antivirus system.
> ><http://www.eset.com <http://www.eset.com>>http://www.eset.com 
> <http://www.eset.com>
>
> [Non-text portions of this message have been removed]
>
>  

It may be of interest that Lancelot Hogben numbered the words of 
Interglossa.
He considered that by using numerals we could communicate using only ten 
symbols.

He wrote: "This involves recourse to half as many symbols from a 
keyboard with less than half as many items."
This was in 1943 so he was not speaking about a computer keyboard !

Saluta,
John Avis
 

	
	
		
___________________________________________________________ 
All new Yahoo! Mail "The new Interface is stunning in its simplicity and ease of use." - PC Magazine 
http://uk.docs.yahoo.com/nowyoucan.html

