---
authorName: William T. Branch
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;William T. Branch&quot; &lt;bill@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGVmNThyYyszN2xuQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGVmN2E5dCtqc2E2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 842
msgSnippet: Alo Wilko, ... The wiki belongs to all members of this glosa list. You
  can find it at http://glosalist.pbwiki.com/ . ... bill? Language is an exercise
  in
nextInTime: 843
nextInTopic: 849
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1159146621'
prevInTime: 841
prevInTopic: 841
profile: williamtbranch
replyTo: LIST
senderId: 5rmPR_6Cwn5Pz1cGSUMhe3onmCWugOB3ie9H0Rt39vZicgN_1WC09QJiLkP1z4klBuPLafkFY27zaSHXVDnPfvnTUhSuamM8hQ-lZ7wao-8d36ENXA
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: compilation of Glosa&#39;s semantic primes'
topicId: 839
userId: 224099157
---

Alo Wilko,

> Nice idea (what is the URL of your wiki?).
> This is a good e=
xample of the serious use of artificial languages I
> would like to see mor=
e of.

The wiki belongs to all members of this glosa list. You can find it =
at
http://glosalist.pbwiki.com/ .

> 
> My first impression of Glosa is tha=
t we can say a lot using only a
> 1000 Glosa words.
> That seems to imply t=
hat Glosa words are strongly semantically
> overloaded (one word can be use=
d in various ways, has multiple
> meanings). So I am curious, what makes yo=
u think Glosa would fit the
bill?

Language is an exercise in combinatorics=
. In any language, there is a
finite vocabulary by which an infinite number=
 of concepts can be
expressed even when the words are not semantically over=
loaded.

Most words act as "syntactic sugar", which means they are a semant=
ic
shortcut to a concept from base primitives. It is easier to say
"elephan=
t" then "Giant gray mammal with long snout type animal".

A small vocabular=
y doesn't necessarily mean semantic overloading
because a large vocabulary =
is not fundamentally necessary. Take a look
at http://www.une.edu.au/lcl/ns=
m/index.php for more information on the
semantic primitives as understood t=
o date.

Glosa is not semantically overloaded in the sense that a word has
=
multiple meanings (usually). Generally, words in Glosa are meant to
refer t=
o an umbrella concept. ie, Rather then have a word for each of
"love", "lik=
e", "infatuated with", "fond" etc.. Glosa uses one concept
word, "amo", whi=
ch refers to the general concept for all of these. If
you want to get more =
specific, you may, by using more words as in the
elephant example above.

O=
f course "amo" is an exception to the one word one concept tendency
in Glos=
a because it also means "sand".

Why do I think that Glosa will fit the bil=
l for a testbed language for
the Natural Semantic Metalanguage?

I don't ye=
t. This is what I'm investigating right now. If I imagine
what kind of lang=
uage would be ideal for NSM as a neutral playground
for explications, the l=
anguage I see would be very glosa-like. But so
far I see, there are several=
 unresolved issues from an NSM point of
view in the Glosa vocabulary, parti=
cularly that of the sixty three primes.

Glosa was not designed from the st=
art with the NSM in mind, but the
mindsets of the creators were pretty clos=
e. They were looking for
simplicity in concepts and communication. Glosa wa=
s designed to be
easy to learn and thus picked up quickly.

I think a sub-s=
et of Glosa could be put together for the purposes of
NSM research with onl=
y a handful of changes to the vocabulary. This
could be a small branch from=
 the Glosa language designed specifically
for the purposes of NSM research.=


Regards,
Bill Branch






