---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGVmNThyYyszN2xuQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MTAzMDE2MzgyNy4wNDk0OTQyMEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDQ1MTU2QzQ5LjIwMDA2MDJAdGhlYnJhbmNoaGVhcnRoLm5ldD4gPGVmNThyYyszN2xuQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 850
msgSnippet: Karo Plu Glosa-pe I have thought about the common, and extremely useful,
  concept of SOME . While oligo is in the dictionary, I read it as few. For me the
nextInTime: 851
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 5
postDate: '1162188382'
prevInTime: 849
prevInTopic: 849
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Cjxc529YcotdrYuJekzay2vGShoYkzSIM6tFtyPJ2e4anTtnQzBAaVax8dAUk9NYkcS726Z9WDzjk2wV73AtcKW1krmfESggKpm_6uMJY0q8f7kAdmE-dbOuHUpUstSk
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: compilation of Glosa&#39;s semantic primes'
topicId: 839
userId: 147970330
---

Karo Plu Glosa-pe
         I have thought about the common, and extremely useful, 
concept of "SOME".
         While oligo is in the dictionary, I read it as few.

         For me the plural determinant plu  is readily objectified 
into things by using the extension -ra .  This gives us plura = several, some.

         But in semantic theory there is a possible distinction 
between 'countables' and 'non-countables (or measurables)' , which 
gives rise to the distinction between some apples and some water.  I 
feel that such a distinction is meaningful, and should be preserved:-

EG      plura pome  =  several apples; some apples

         un peu (de) aqa   =  a little water; some water
           u mega qantita de aqa  =   a lot of water; much water; some water

However, for the general concept of "some water", without saying how 
much, I feel there ought to be a handy determinant.  For this I hear, 
in my head, the short construction "of the water"; this translates 
for me into "of (plural)".

Suggestion:      des  =  some (an indeterminate quantity)

EG    An don a mi des aqa.      He gave me some water.

         Just a thought.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell

At 05:33 PM 9/24/06, you wrote:

>Alo Bill,
>
>Nice idea (what is the URL of your wiki?).
>This is a good example of the serious use of artificial languages I
>would like to see more of.
>
>My first impression of Glosa is that we can say a lot using only a
>1000 Glosa words.
>That seems to imply that Glosa words are strongly semantically
>overloaded (one word can be used in various ways, has multiple
>meanings). So I am curious, what makes you think Glosa would fit the bill?
>
>PS. Why not translate "some" as "two_or_more" or
>"two_or_more_but_not_most"?
>
>Bon voles.
>
>Wilko
>
>--- In 
><mailto:glosalist%40yahoogroups.com>glosalist@yahoogroups.com, 
>"William T. Branch" <bill@...> wrote:
> >
> > Hello All,
> >
> > I've written both Cliff Goddard and Ann Wierzbeka a thank you letter
>for
> > their work. I've also joined their mailing list and started a nsm wiki.
> > I am currently compiling the primes from glosa to present to the NSM
> > community as a tool for their research. I'm still trying to get a
> > complete understanding of how glosa would contribute to their research.
> >
> > I have a few ideas. Basically the study of primes would benefit from a
> > language with no baggage attached to the primes. For example the
>English
> > word "someone" has a meaning which does not break down to "some one" or
> > even "some person". According to the NSM folks, "someone" is a prime in
> > it's own right. Also the word "touch" means various things; the NSM
> > meaning, just one. When formulating explications, NSM researhers would
> > benefit from a language that is clean from other language
> > idiosyncrasies. In this way the researcher would not un-intentionally
> > use a word because of the words secondary meaning and thus cause
>confusion.
> >
> > The question is, does Glosa fit the bill. I don't know the answer yet,
> > but I see a few issues. I would like to have a strong case for the
> > usefulness of Glosa to the NSM folks before I present it.
> >
> > In any case, I'm compiling the words now, and will present them to this
> > list for review. Currently, I'm stuck on the word for "some". According
> > to the dictionary it is either, "no-polio" or "oligo".
> >
> > "Oligo" means few or several. This seams to bar it from being a prime.
> > This meaning to me covers a range from, more then two to just being
> > short of all.
> >
> > "no-polio" may work, but being a compound word, it seems to cause the
> > confusion we're trying to avoid. If we decide compounds are OK for all
> > opposites then we must be consistant on all primes that are opposites
> > such as "above" and "below". And if this is done, how would you be
> > consistent with which word gets to stand on it's own, and which must
> > have the prefix?
> >
> > These are the questions, I know will be asked of us If Glosa is
> > presented to the NSM community as a proposed test-bed language.
> >
> > Any help would be appreciated for compiling this list. I have some
>words
> > started on the wiki. All are welcome to add to it.
> >
> > Unfortunately, I have just a few minutes a day, but I'm making steady
> > progress. I work often 80 hours a week and help take care of my four
> > young children. So linguistics is a hobby I have little time for. But I
> > spend some time on it every week. I will try finishing this compilation
> > as soon as I can.
> >
> > Regards,
> > Bill branch
> >
>
>
>
>__________ NOD32 1.1784 (20060929) Information __________
>
>This message was checked by NOD32 antivirus system.
><http://www.eset.com>http://www.eset.com


[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


