---
authorName: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Robin Fairbridge Gaskell &lt;drought-breaker@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGVqcTZsbCtwZjZsQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDYuMi4zLjQuMC4yMDA2MTEyNjIyMjg0Mi4wMzIzY2E4MEBwby5wYWNpZmljLm5ldC5hdT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PDAwMTcwMWM3MDUyZSQ1ZTExYWU0MCQ1YTgxNzYzZUBhMGgzcjc+IDxlanE2bGwrcGY2bEBlR3JvdXBzLmNvbT4=
layout: email
msgId: 872
msgSnippet: '... Interesting! This idea, that writing in Glosa demands using words
  in meaningful context is roughly the same idea that I have been stressing for years,
  i.e.'
nextInTime: 873
nextInTopic: 873
numMessagesInTopic: 12
postDate: '1164675940'
prevInTime: 871
prevInTopic: 871
profile: robynge2000
replyTo: LIST
senderId: teUYcpSiXrz1hUXEzbo-Owv-MlaurhmBIEbqwYssFYI3zGyLp4chGTHhwfnwT-94hG-B1zSujWCw2Lzr5X_115x1Eb_EtEMh_ZRnGD1BYFBZRgKn-kM-ECV6vucq_HfX
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Re: English-Glosa web page translator'
topicId: 852
userId: 147970330
---

At 05:09 AM 11/20/06, ernobe pa grafo:

>--- In 
><mailto:glosalist%40yahoogroups.com>glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "Nick 
>N. Mikhailenko" <nick0000@...>
>wrote:
> >
> > Thanks. I will give the same for Esperanto.
> > It would be intresting Eo<->Glosa
> > For all: use a simple English, please
> > (if you hate Eo)
> >
> > Nikolao
>
>First make it Glosa -> Esperanto, so you can read and understand Glosa
>in Esperanto. This is easier and more practical than Esperanto ->
>Glosa because Glosa has only one word for each concept, and relies on
>the user to give a meaningful context to those concepts so that the
>precise meaning becomes evident. I am working on Glosa -> English and
>Glosa -> Spanish programs, and will make the wordlists available so
>that others can use them to translate Glosa into their own languages.

  Interesting!
This idea, that writing in Glosa demands using words in meaningful 
context is roughly the same idea that I have been stressing for 
years, i.e. that the correct use of Glosa demands an elegant accuracy.

         Thus, if information is laid down in Glosa, it is quite easy 
to translate out of it -- into other national languages and even into 
other Planned Languages.
         If the above idea is correct, it would stamp Glosa as the 
ideal Middle Language and as a suitable candidate for as the bridge 
language in a computer translation process.  What is more, the bridge 
language, i.e. Glosa, or a close variant of it, would be readable by 
humans as well as by machines.

         And on the reference to "Glosa -> Esperanto" I would 
definitely find the well-written Glosa version of a document a lot 
easier to understand than the well-written Esperanto version of 
it.  In fact, I had to do a translation, on paper, from Esperanto 
into English when the now Professor of Linguistics in China, Haitao, 
insisted on answering my Glosa letters to him in Esperanto.

Saluta,

Robin Gaskell 

[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


