---
authorName: Jay Sistar
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Jay Sistar &lt;jaysistar@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGVxODluMCtya2xyQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDQ1QzkxNEExLjQwNjA2QHlhaG9vLmNvbT4=
headers.referencesHeader: PGVxODluMCtya2xyQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
layout: email
msgId: 893
msgSnippet: I believe that, for a start, we need to make an audio learning aid. I
  have been studying several languages, and I find that to be the best type of aid.
  I am
nextInTime: 894
nextInTopic: 894
numMessagesInTopic: 4
postDate: '1170805921'
prevInTime: 892
prevInTopic: 892
profile: jaysistar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: SbPQ3eGU-r1k4kFBVaGxEG6LOZ8Ic3lnIroMPuTwlB8LwaiB2AxMp6AFUanGukaeOlu8Bccu9NECs7lCUJ9QTOj_PC-M4hw
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] Activity'
topicId: 892
userId: 69507746
---

I believe that, for a start, we need to make an audio learning aid. I 
have been studying several languages, and I find that to be the best 
type of aid. I am sure that others agree.

I am not experienced at making such a CD/Tape, but I believe that one 
could start by using an existing aid for another language. These 
CDs/Tapes are usually littered with cultural information. I believe that 
this is unnecessary. Therefore, the best CD/Tape to start from is 
another artificial language's CDs/Tapes, such as Esperanto.

-Jay


Hal Jordon wrote:
>
> I am hoping there is going to be more activity on the list. I think
> that Glosa has by far the best ideas concerning a world second
> language. It needs only to get its name and purpose out there. I have
> dabbled in the study of languages for far longer that I care to
> admit, and here I have found all of the concepts in place that I feel
> will make the interlangage (not a real word...I know) a very definite
> possibility.
>
> That isn't to say that I haven't found a couple things I'd change,
> because I have. (is my grammar as bad as it seems? that jsut read as
> an ugly sentence) All in all, it is the best solution to something
> which has been a problem for too long.
>
> I hope that these discussions pick up soon and I hope to be able to
> add something to them. I also hope that my abilities improve enough
> to where I can speak in Glosa soon as well.
>
> Plu Saluta,
>
> Hal
>
>  



[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


