---
authorName: Marcel Springer
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Marcel Springer&quot; &lt;marcel@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGY1bnI1ais3NWYxQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGY1cnV0bis2Y2Q2QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 923
msgSnippet: '... The authors discussed a lot with the users via their newspaper Plu
  Glosa Nota .  So during development of the language, some new ideas came in.  Probably'
nextInTime: 924
nextInTopic: 926
numMessagesInTopic: 16
postDate: '1182891767'
prevInTime: 922
prevInTopic: 922
profile: marcel_ingo
replyTo: LIST
senderId: Hla-3-q8YeGe3P610XCWnjqpeDqQxxEKDLH-X1HK11-DW02ClL0IsJYHT4y_SMhhweJEh6bySxq4V7kftXJnVbpXKyRxRPkr08yR6LHl
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Errors in 18 Steps'
topicId: 905
userId: 142192462
---

himalayanpussycat grafo 2007-06-25: 
 > I believe the founders of the langu=
age did not wish to clearly
 > define all the details.  They wanted YOU as =
users of the language
 > to decide. They published many different variation=
s (formats) of
 > the language so that you (users) will choose the ones you=
 like and
 > use them, and ignore the ones you don't like and let them fall=
 into
 > disuse. 

The authors discussed a lot with the users via their new=
spaper "Plu
Glosa Nota".  So during development of the language, some new i=
deas
came in.  Probably this lead to some contradictions in the material. 
=

But I do not understand what you mean with "different variations"?
The lan=
guage is ready! 

Please try to use the language and write some texts.  Whe=
n you come
into problems, read the GEO-books, ask here the glosalist-pe or =
ask
Wendy Ashby.  Normally it can be decided, what is good Glosa and what
i=
s wrong. 


 > ... And I get the sense that the most are anglophone. That m=
eans as
 > the time goes by Glosa will be more and more English like, quash=
ing
 > wishes of the minorities ... I may occasionally be putting my two
 >=
 bits out there as a minority, which some of you may not like. I
 > apologi=
ze, if so. 

A big part of the internet is English, and that is where we ar=
e, like
it or not.  I am a German.  Now I am a bit out of practice with
Eng=
lish, so my English level went down.  Nevertheless I have the
feeling, that=
 I am welcome here.  And you are welcome, too, no matter,
where you are fro=
m.  By the way, where are you from? 


 > As it is now, it seems to me the =
person who has the greatest power
 > is the person who maintains the websit=
e(s). (I have seen some
 > "errors" in the website ;-) 

Power is not the g=
oal of glosa.org.  Sad, when somebody gets this
impression.  It is just a f=
ree information service about one of the
most interesting IALs.  I try to k=
eep Wendy Ashby informed about what
is going on there and I want to conside=
r her wishes. 

Please tell me errors.  I will try to fix them, but please =
be
patient. 

Everybody can set up his own Glosa website.  I am collecting =
the
addresses in the link section of glosa.org.  The last entry of
2007-05-=
28 is the site of Aender (glosalist-pe "vekigulacerbon")
with his translati=
ons of beautiful poems. 

Saluta - Marcel 


