---
authorName: Tom Cook
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Tom Cook&quot; &lt;didymus857@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGY2MHZjbCtrZmpmQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 924
msgSnippet: I know there is a place (more than one) online where you can deliver a
  manuscript or text and it can then be ordered by anyone and printed on demand. The
  books
nextInTime: 925
nextInTopic: 925
numMessagesInTopic: 2
postDate: '1183056085'
prevInTime: 923
prevInTopic: 0
profile: didymus857
replyTo: LIST
senderId: NpIkhDRrOr_l_SDaZBAOStzpeQAQGKRs4ZLw0_ZPK5VBZxSTOSS0gsbmr7B3lFHwkdYQmBzGezvg8po-XZfLnDz7eg6CzLIM
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: book availabilty
topicId: 924
userId: 93176404
---

I know there is a place (more than one) online where you can deliver a
manu=
script or text and it can then be ordered by anyone and printed on
demand. =
The books may be a little more expensive to be made available
this way but =
are better for small runs because no stock has to be
maintained and no init=
ial investment and big upfront order has to be
made.  The shipping, printin=
g cost and printers profit is taken care
of by the company and the rest is =
sent to the author. I have bought a
few books like this.

This might be a g=
reat way to make the 18 steps available faster and
easier to more people.  =
I think maybe two versions or even one version
with an extensive reading se=
ction, more excersizes, The dictionaries
(both into Glosa and out)or histor=
y could be added. Even combining
some of the other material out there like =
the Seminars, and some of
the Plu Glosa Nota  (with permission, of course).=
   And it would be
easier enough to have different language versions.  poss=
ible make the
dictionary a separate book for each different language.  or p=
ossibly
one combined version.

I think that this is a pretty fair idea (I u=
sually like my ideas.) 


Any positive or negative feedback?  We would need=
 some permissions and
such from all the authors of the material to get this=
 going but I
think it could only help get Glosa out there.

and on a more p=
etty note,  do we need two different words for water? 
aqa and hidro? 

I w=
as wondering if all these sort of things had been worked out before
I sarte=
d to learn Glosa.  I realize some of my questions may seem
small but I thin=
k if Glosa it to grow some of these issues should be
examined.  

I do agre=
e that Glosa does has a little favoritism towards english and
it should be =
addressed.


Anyway I shall step down from my podium and make way for the n=
ext speaker.



Saluta,
Tom



