---
authorName: Jay Sistar
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: Jay Sistar &lt;jaysistar@...&gt;
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PDMxNDA4Mi43OTMzNC5xbUB3ZWIzOTcwMS5tYWlsLm11ZC55YWhvby5jb20+
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 930
msgSnippet: Present tence verb markers are not a bad thing to include because they
  add clarity to what you re saying. However, flexable word order is not a very good
  idea.
nextInTime: 931
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 3
postDate: '1183400670'
prevInTime: 929
prevInTopic: 929
profile: jaysistar
replyTo: LIST
senderId: V8fffCUYz4ZnhoDUsnjDAkAmB8XiehPaqt8pjrxJ_7kNtovrW85UjGBy6t2tBTtklTuxm0nPuyrNl446W9gcJ6kcjjyPbNQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '0'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: [glosalist] word order'
topicId: 928
userId: 69507746
---

Present tence verb markers are not a bad thing to include because they add clarity to what you're saying. However, flexable word order is not a very good idea. People learning the language from other word order languages would likely adopt their own personal word order, which would be difficult for people comming from other word ordered languages. The accual order chosen doesn't matter, but the fact that it is chosen, and therefore univerally the same word order is used is very important for quick clarity of communication.

Artifical langauges are much easier to understand -because- of their constraints that they have placed upon their language. Lifting constraits is not always a good idea.

Esperanto accaully focused on the wrong constraint for best clarity: Noun declination makes the language have to change spelling of a word giving rise to the concept of a "root" word and a "declined" word.

Glosa does not make this destinction, but it does so simply at the cost of having to use word order to find whether the noun is the subject object or indirect object of the sentence. Glosa's markers also obey these rules. That is why Glosa is an easier language to pick up than Esperanto.

-Jay 


----- Original Message ----
From: Eike Preuss <mail@...>
To: glosalist@yahoogroups.com
Sent: Monday, July 2, 2007 9:03:55 AM
Subject: Re: [glosalist] word order

Hi all,
I still don't like the idea of a flexible word order, it's one of the 
things that I really don't like in Esperanto.
Since this was already discussed on this list, I'll refer to my two 
cents given in
http://tech. groups.yahoo. com/group/ glosalist/ message/691
and
http://tech. groups.yahoo. com/group/ glosalist/ message/813

In these posts I explain why I would like both for glosa:
a) a (present mode / neutral) verb marker, because it makes the 
sentence structure more obvious
b) a clearer and even stricter defined word order, where I don't 
really care whether it is SVO, VSO, SOV or whatever of the 6 
combinations, as long as it will be only one of them

:))

Eike

On Jul 2, 2007, at 11:12 AM, lenadi_moucina wrote:

> "I had some contact with hindi some time ago and am thinking of how
> glosa could use hindi word order -verb final, also some slight contact
> with welsh verb first"
>
> I think that it could be easy to make Glosa a few independant of the
> word order. It need only two particules :
> - one to mark the object of a verb
> - one to mark the present mode of a verb.
>
> Try "i" for the object mark and "to" [:-)] for the mark of the present
> mode.
> You can now write this Glosa clause "an frakti u botilia" by different
> ways.
> (an) (TO frakti) ("I" u botilia)
> (TO frakti) (an) (I u botilia)
> (an)(I botilia) (TO frakti)
> {note that AN is the subject, if it is a reflexive pronoun you have to
> write "I an" : [(botilia) (to frakti) (I AN)] }
> (I u botilia) (TO frakti) (an)
> And so on :
> (I u botilia) (PA frakti) (an)
> (I u botilia) (FU frakti) (an)
> (I u botilia) (NU FU frakti) (an)
> (I u botilia) (NU DU PA frakti) (an)
> (I u botilia) (DU TO frakti) (an)
>
> I think it may not allways necessary to mark the object when the order
> SVO is the respected rule. The language IDO use a seeming system for
> the "accusative" , special end of word or particule before give the
> same logical meaning.
>
> Saluta
> Daniel
>
>
>
>
> Yahoo! Groups Links
>
>
>




[Non-text portions of this message have been removed]


