---
authorName: lenadi_moucina
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;lenadi_moucina&quot; &lt;lenadi_moucina@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGY3cGdjcitmaG85QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGY3cTBqMys5YW9lQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 958
msgSnippet: '... when ... with ... Paris) ... appointment] ... [...] ... You are not
  wrong! I find your examples in 18 Steps to Fluency and some others curiosities!.
  The'
nextInTime: 959
nextInTopic: 959
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1184925091'
prevInTime: 957
prevInTopic: 957
profile: lenadi_moucina
replyTo: LIST
senderId: FQ0MQeYhjBHbhK4Lkyt-GTUfrvYpkohuu_AwxMGS0XdZ1J5HWwEYnRrH1HTDxvWUVF9SO3fSP3uBkQEGVlIB_JI56Z4MB8NrTUK0S6wWDDU3
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Liaison'
topicId: 957
userId: 287459349
---


--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "himalayanpussycat" 
<maryannehanna@...>=
 wrote:
>
> Glosa uses a kind of liaison (apparently inherited from a, an);=
 
when 
> the words like a, u or ko are followed by a vowel or h (consonant=
; 
> this is a legacy of silent h; it's about time we grouped it not 
with =

> vowels but with consonants, no?) d or n are added to create a 
> liaison=
, making ad, un, or kon (I consider this too as a kind of 
> inflection): 
=
> - u --> U plus(o) bibli. (Another [additional] book) 
> - un --> Un heter=
o bibli. (Another [different] book) 
> - a --> An pa trena a Paris. (He 'tr=
ained' [went by train] to 
Paris) 
> - ad --> Mi pa veni ad Italia pre bi a=
nua. (I came to Italy two 
> years ago) 
> - ko --> dice Glosa ko mi. (spea=
k Glosa with me.) 
> - kon --> Na pa unio kon an a tri horo. (We met him [b=
y 
appointment] 
> at three.) 
> However, this rule is not consistently app=
lied: 
> - u(n) --> France es u Euro-landa. (France is a Euro-country) 
> -=
 u(n) --> verifi u horo-tabula (check the time table) 
> - u(n) --> dupe un=
 publika kampania (run an advertising campaign) 
> - ko(n) --> Ko u-ci gram=
a mi mite u posta karta de mi urba; (With 
> this mail I send a postcard of=
 my town;) 
> And why isn't the same rule applied to other similar words; e=
, ab, 
> pa, in, etc.? 
>  
> This rule may seem "natural" or "nicer" to an=
glophones but for 
> people of many other languages it strikes you as odd.
=
[...]
 
> NB: All examples come from "18 Steps to Fluency"
>

You are not w=
rong! I find your examples in "18 Steps to Fluency" and 
some others curios=
ities!.
The primitive rules seems very englih (word order, elision) and it =

may be a good think to redefine them now days with more regularity.
For me=
 the writen Glosa cannot accept any variations, always "ad" 
or "a" but not=
 the two, always "Kon" or "Ko" but not the two... And 
the hiato always the=
 good way. 

To speak is an other problem! Tolerance! Tolerance! 
When I li=
sten the MP3 documents, if Ron and Wendy are speaking, my 
wife said to me =
: "You are learning English now!", and I expect that 
if I said some words =
in Glosa, you can answer :"when you speak Glosa 
it is liking french!"

Per=
haps, actually, nobody are realy glosa speaker. The writen Glosa 
is the no=
rmalizes, and the work of the community may be to perfect it.

The good que=
stion :"Who are now the deciders? What commity? Nobody? 
Everyone?"

Plu am=
ika
Daniel


