---
authorName: Daniel MACOUIN
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Daniel MACOUIN&quot; &lt;lenadi_moucina@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: .nan
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGY4c2VyaStuanJmQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 971
msgSnippet: I began to learn Glosa and Ido the same week. Some months later, I can
  read easily an Ido text, but not a Glosa one. I have past very more time in learning
nextInTime: 972
nextInTopic: 972
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1186053810'
prevInTime: 969
prevInTopic: 0
profile: lenadi_moucina
replyTo: LIST
senderId: bMPb_1j1rsbvbH34Pc3XYjJleuj7UX0vJ6M5uJwjrX9v-SbWksIGEyh_UNdwIMjQ01ZHdIuZIl0apx5mYGhGz63tk7s478ZGku1EmUlvMyuz
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: Who are now the deciders?
topicId: 971
userId: 287459349
---

I began to learn Glosa and Ido the same week. Some months later, I 
can rea=
d easily an Ido text, but not a Glosa one. I have past very 
more time in l=
earning Glosa than Ido : with the same brain !!!

At the beginning, the "no=
-grammar" seems to be more easy. But I have 
realized that this "no-grammar=
" is a untrue advertising. In fact, 
glosa use a tyranic grammar (and any P=
art-of-Speetch markers : u, 
plu, ge- ...) but sometimes inoperant. 

This =
is the big bug into the programm : It is very hard, and by the 
way impossi=
ble, to separate the subject-phrase and the verb-phrase, 
if the tense is "=
present". This question is recurrent on this forum, 
Kevin Smith and others=
 have imagined solutions.

I thing that Glosa need some changes : 
 1) a fu=
ndamental : a marker of beginning of the verb-phrase;
 2) and some others w=
hich are not an absolute necesity, but useful 
(eg: make a differencie betw=
een suffixies and  conjonctions or 
prepositions [te -te ...]).

For the ve=
rb-marker, the MINIMAL change is to considerer that NU is 
the marker of th=
e present tense, and that it is an OBLIGATION to use 
it. 

Perhaps it's no=
t the better maner, I will explain a more perturbant 
system some day, but =
using NU present the avantage of no-changing the 
rules, nor the vocabulary=
, just use them more rigorously.

Nobody use Glosa on this forum, only some=
times Syd Pidd and yesturday 
Himalayanpussicat? Perhaps because Glosa is n=
ot so easy that it would 
to seem.

Ultima qestio: 
Where are now the decid=
ers? If they are phantoms who never write on 
this group, Glosa is a dead-i=
diom. I think that an evolution of Glosa 
is better than a momification and=
 the multiplications of variants, 
but no-change is Glosa's died and many r=
ebirths.

Daniel



