---
authorName: Daniel MACOUIN
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Daniel MACOUIN&quot; &lt;lenadi_moucina@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGNlNi4xNWQ4MjNiYi4zM2UzOGM0MkBhb2wuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGY4dGozcytwbTk5QGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 977
msgSnippet: '... than your ... appear on ... OK. Before my precedent message, I have
  find, in the old pages of this forum, the traces of some propositions for the'
nextInTime: 978
nextInTopic: 978
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1186090940'
prevInTime: 976
prevInTopic: 976
profile: lenadi_moucina
replyTo: LIST
senderId: aN6F886c8W8IKwAiaLKNK75VsYEBXjA6GKisU6iWGCroYtvd5aGdjYnhavH7WzDRF5LmuexaIpA1VXLlu5CfoIf2GDhC-i5PAkIQx90r2_hK
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Who are now the deciders?'
topicId: 971
userId: 287459349
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, sydpidd@... wrote:
>
> i agree and have s=
aid so several times - i have used "du" rather
than your  
> "nu" as it inc=
ludes "dura" . one way forward is for as much glosa to
appear on  
> glosa =
etc as posiblle 

OK. Before my precedent message, I have find, in the old =
pages of this
forum, the traces of some propositions for the verb-marker.

=
"2004?
"Plu bovi vora" could mean "cows eat" or "foods of the cow"
"Plu bov=
i pa vora" must mean "the cows ate". I have several times been
puzzled by a=
 glosa phrase's meaning in the present because writers
have not
marked the =
beginning of the time/control/verb part. To get round the
problem, I
used t=
he word "du" with the english "do eat / did eat" in mind.
However, there
is=
 some confusion with duration etc. Durante/o, dura, du . "Du" seems to
mean=
 "am eating" which usually suggests "at this moment" whereas I
want "past
+=
 future +present intermitent" - "pa-nu-fu-frakti" ?!
i should be grateful i=
f someone could suggest something to introduce the
verb present clearly and=
 briefly.
Syd Pidd" :-)

We can propose a new marker, naturelly! but, I am =
afraid, it seems
impossible that it could be accepted without the authority=
 of a
Comitee. Therefore, with existant markers, it is possible to make a
n=
ormalize by the use.

It seems to me that NU is the absolute present marker=
, and may be
composite, without problems, with duration DU and the markers =
of past
tense or future tense (pa nu =3D just-pasted and fu nu =3D immediat=
e-future):
U bovi nu vora 
Plu bovi pa vora
U-ci bovi fu du vora
U-la bovi =
pa nu vora 
Plu bovi nu du vora ("Plu bovi du vora" may be also possible by=
 ommit
of the NU markers if there are not ambiguity. The DU marker separate=

the noun-phrase and the verb-phrase)

There is no ambiguity with this sent=
ence :
U bovi vora
which is a noun phrase because there is not a verb-marke=
r inside.

For me, this solution presents the advantages of no new word, no=
 new
rule, no ambiguity, it just need a precision for the use of the NU mar=
ker.

(By the way, I note that it is, perhaps, not necessary to keep a
spec=
ial status at the words ES, HABE, GENE, and I feel that they can
be conside=
red as concept-words same the others, obeying at the same
rules. But this i=
s a other chapter of my Glosa adventures !)

Daniel




