---
authorName: Daniel MACOUIN
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Daniel MACOUIN&quot; &lt;lenadi_moucina@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PDQ2Nzk2OUNGLTI2NUUtNDBGQS04RDkxLURBODYzNTMwQzBCOEBlaWtlcHJldXNzLmRlPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGY5MTZicytnb20wQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 979
msgSnippet: '... I don t think this will ... If everybody thinks that Glosa is allways
  congruent, and if I am the only man on the earth who find contradictions between
  the'
nextInTime: 980
nextInTopic: 0
numMessagesInTopic: 8
postDate: '1186208956'
prevInTime: 978
prevInTopic: 978
profile: lenadi_moucina
replyTo: LIST
senderId: avq4H1FoEiQAhOZEzo8_sQTs0hZvsvkXhBcW6PlsDbXIJPC9jjhxfbdn8AlUjzBXxWOFu-kxA3tFMu4QPdsbdiLut22o_UrK-bnEmSOtL_NU
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Who are now the deciders?'
topicId: 971
userId: 287459349
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, Eike Preuss <mail@...> wrote:
 I don't th=
ink this will  
> happen without some authority telling somebody to do it.
=
> 


If everybody thinks that Glosa is allways congruent, and if I am the
o=
nly man on the earth who find contradictions between the general  
annoncie=
s (no grammar!) and the reality, naturelly I shall go far away
with my inca=
pacities.
Because I cannot understand the structure of some exemples in the=

R.Gaskell's Seminar1&2 :

e.g.  were quickly end excitedly talking loudly =
     VP
      pa du celero e excita fo-sono dice

[celero e excita] fo-sono=
 dice
celero e [excita fo-sono] dice
?????

 e.g.  The boy, who was fat and=
 badly dressed, arrived.
       U ju-an; qi pa es paki e mali ge-vesti, pa =
ariva.        AdjC
Why /paki/ and/ge-vesti/ ????
why not /ge-paki/, why not=
 /mali vesti/ ????

EG  An fo hedo bibe.  .......................  hedo  'v=
erb'
          ~~~~   ............................  bibe  'gerund' (verb/no=
un)
   [He very-much enjoys to drink/drinking.]

Why /hedo/ is a verb??? wh=
y not /bibe/ ???
Why not /an/: possessive >/fo/ and /hedo/ : adjectives > /=
bibe/ :
noun???? (his very-much enjoyed drink) 

AND WHY SOME WORDS ARE ONL=
Y VERBS ?
(I have read at the beginning that in Glosa, a word is a concept =
and
may be use as verb, noun, adverb or adjective)

"**********************=
********
COMMON 'VERBS'

In Glosa, some words are used almost exclusively a=
s verbs, and these
are general-purpose verbs, such as:-

  habe  - to have,=
 have has
  ki    - to go, go, goes, went
  veni  - to come, come, comes, c=
ame
  tena  - to hold, grab, take



VERBOIDS

Some words, in Glosa, are "a=
lmost verbs" but are not "full verbs" in
their own right: they are not 'sta=
nd-alone' verbs, but they add to the
meaning of the "full verb", which is u=
sually the final word in the
Verb Phrase. These Verboids are half-way betwe=
en Adverbs and Verbs.
Examples:-

  posi   - possibly
  pote   - can, has t=
he ability to
  nece   - needs to, must
  lice   - be allowed, allow to
  d=
ebi   - ought to
  hedo   - enjoys, happily
  forti  - strongly
  seqe   - =
following, subsequently
  vo(lu) - wish to, would
  tanto  - so much, almos=
t
  tosto  - soon
" (http://www.glosa.org/en/seminar2.htm)

***************=
********

For me, if I am not the only stupid man, Glosa need an active
aut=
hority to perform the language, but who and where are now the deciders?

Da=
niel


