---
authorName: Roy Fullmer
canDelete: false
contentTrasformed: false
from: '&quot;Roy Fullmer&quot; &lt;ernobe@...&gt;'
headers.inReplyToHeader: PGY5M2tidCttamFmQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.messageIdInHeader: PGY5NnFmMis2MHFhQGVHcm91cHMuY29tPg==
headers.referencesHeader: .nan
layout: email
msgId: 981
msgSnippet: '... The entire process is completely automated.  All I have to do is
  feed a file containing all the Glosa words and their English equivalents into a
  program,'
nextInTime: 982
nextInTopic: 982
numMessagesInTopic: 7
postDate: '1186393378'
prevInTime: 980
prevInTopic: 980
profile: ernobe
replyTo: LIST
senderId: o4HQo4-CiT6Xh6wGnIkWhxj_Yrq9fIt3uJCpXHkWwzpf3Pl5GfM0IHhQBOynsAnP2npFnZD8vEZz9NQ1HL8FZUP5KuC3iNQ
spamInfo.isSpam: false
spamInfo.reason: '6'
systemMessage: false
title: 'Re: Discrepancies : No-gru'
topicId: 968
userId: 80863808
---

--- In glosalist@yahoogroups.com, "himalayanpussycat"
<maryannehanna@...> w=
rote:
>
> Many thanks for the response. Your program is very nice and your =
web 
> site is excellent. I see that you have done a lot of work especially=
 
> on xml. Forgive me for being ignorant but using your program how can 
>=
 I find the Latin or Greek equivalent for a particular Glosa word? 
>  
> W=
hat I'm quibbling over is mainly the fact that some Glosa words do 
> not s=
eem to have come from either Latin or Greek as is claimed in 
> Glosa.  (An=
d I understand that modifying words means modifying your 
> program) 
>  
>=
 PS: Is the Glosa dictionary in a database? Does the server provide 
> some=
 kind of database program? 
>  
The entire process is completely automated.=
  All I have to do is feed
a file containing all the Glosa words and their =
English equivalents
into a program, and out comes the Thesaurus, with searc=
h and everything!  

First search for the Glosa equivalent of an English wo=
rd, then search
for the English equivalents of the Glosa word.  Then you wi=
ll see that
Glosa words can have many shades of meaning.  The inventors of =
Glosa
have concentrated on words derived from Latin or Greek roots in order=

to not have contradictory shades of meaning, and to make the words 
transm=
it concrete concepts.  To us it seems mysterious, like something
that just =
happens, but the truth is, that for hundreds, if not
thousands of years, th=
e Latins have been educated by the Greeks, and
they've learned well what th=
ey can or cannot say, and what the Greeks
have already said better.  It is =
only now that we are beginning to
realize this, because the Latins have als=
o helped the Greeks realize
the universal nature of the meanings they've le=
arned from their words,
and it is only now, when universal communication ha=
s actually become
possible, that we can look back objectively and perceive =
the precise
historical connection that existed between them.  The English l=
anguage
serves this purpose better than Latin based languages themselves,
b=
ecause it is free from extraneous ( Latin ) based equivalents to
Greek word=
s that may obscure the preponderating influence of the Greek
meanings in de=
termining the proper sphere of meaning occupied by the
Latin words ( not th=
e other way around ).  So one could say that the
real base of Glosa is Gree=
k, and a few Latin prepositions that help
bring out the full meaning of the=
 Greek words and prepositions,
conjunctions, and other "small words" that h=
elp to bring out the
proper connection between and meaning of verbal and no=
un phrases.  My
point is, that with the base of Greek that already exists i=
n Glosa, it
doesn't really matter where the remaining words come from, beca=
use
they will be limited to and subject to that which can already be
expres=
sed in Glosa.




