---
title: Glosa Vocabulary
layout: post
published: true
---

The Glosa words are taken from Latin and Greek. So they are known to
many people by foreign words or by the Roman languages. A limitated
vocabulary (*GlosaÂ 1000* or *Centra Glosa*), easy to learn for
beginners, should satisfy for all day situations. For higher demands
(science, art, poetry) an extension (*GlosaÂ 6000* or *Mega Glosa*) is
available.

To offer a central vocabulary is a good idea and a strength of the Glosa
design. Unfortunately the many Glosa-1000-lists (you can find some of
them below) differ from each other. The Glosa Internet Dictionary (GID)
is a project, that tries to bring together all the existing vocabulary
material.

## English


  > The **Glosa Internet Dictionary** (GID)\                            
  > \... is the largest dictionary available for Glosa. It is more        
  > comprehensive and has less errors than any printed list. It has three 
  > levels: Mega (Literary, large), Basi (Basic, middle) and Centra       
  > (Core, small). Mega contains all Basi words and Basi contains all     
  > Centra words. Centra has less than 2000Â words and should satisfy for  
  > normal texts and all-day situtations. So these words should be        
  > learned first and be prefered.                                        
  >                                                                       
  > Glosa-English. All: [glen.htm](gid/glen.htm) (HTML, 356Â kB),          
  > [glen.txt](gid/glen.txt) (plain ASCII, 348Â kB). Only Centra:          
  > [coglen.htm](gid/coglen.htm) (100Â kB).\                               
  > English-Glosa. All: [engl.htm](gid/engl.htm) (HTML, 372Â kB),          
  > [engl.txt](gid/engl.txt) (plain ASCII, 364Â kB).                       
  >                                                                       
  > The GID as \"book\" in pdf-format: [gid.pdf](gid/gid.pdf) (732Â kB,    
  > perhaps fitting for offline-reading or printing).                     


The [Central list](gid/centra.htm) by the Glosa authors Ashby/Clark
gives an English cognate to each GlosaÂ 1000Â word. So it affords an
insight into the design of the Glosa words and makes vocabulary learning
quite easy.

Kevin Smith has some vocabulary stuff on his site
[www.qualitycode.com/glosa/index.html](http://www.qualitycode.com/glosa/index.html),
mainly based on the files above, partly experimental. This site will
probably be removed soon, so if the link is dead, please click
[here](http://mysite.freeserve.com/glosa) to see a copy.

## Español/Castellano (Spanish)

[EspaÃ±ol-Glosa](gid/esgl1k.htm)\
[Glosa-EspaÃ±ol](gid/gl1kes.htm)

See below [\"Word Kitchen\"](gid.1.html#kitchen) for more information
about these files.

And here there is also a little machine-translated list
[Glosa-Spanish](gid/gmcoglsp.htm) of an older version of the GID.
Translation-programs always cause funny nonsense, so this file could
only be a base for future work, but please do not use it without the
English version and not without thinking.

Please prefer the English lists of GID above, if it is possible for you.

## Deutsch (German)

GID (only Centra-words) Glosa-English with German translation
(machine-generated) of the English words: [gid\_de.htm](gid/gid_de.htm)
(1.3Â MB).

Files based on the list of the book "DeutschÂ - GlosaÂ 1000" (a little
enhanced, but expired): [Glosa-Deutsch](gid/gldt.htm),
[Deutsch-Glosa](gid/dtgl.htm).

## Français (French)

[French-Glosa](gid/frgl1k.htm)\
[Glosa-French](gid/gl1kfr.htm)

[Daniel Macouin](http://danielmacouin.chez-alice.fr/) has assembled a
printable version of these files.

See below [\"Word Kitchen\"](gid.1.html#kitchen) for more information
about these files.\
Please prefer the English lists of GID above, if it is possible for you.

## Italiano (Italian)

Here there is a little machine-translated list
[Glosa-Italian](gid/gmcoglit.htm) of an older version of the GID-Centra.
Translation-programs always cause funny nonsense, so this file could
only be a base for future work, but please do not use it without the
English version and not without thinking.

## Ruski (Russian)

[GlosaÂ 1000Â - Ruski](gid/gl1kru.htm).\
[RuskiÂ - GlosaÂ 1000](gid/rugl1k.htm).

Another [Russian word
list](http://www.qualitycode.com/glosa/glosaruski-abc.html) is on [Kevin
Smith\'s](http://www.qualitycode.com/glosa/index.html) Glosa site.

Please prefer the English lists of GID above, if it is possible for you.

## Swahili

There is a printed version of \"GlosaÂ 1000\" available. When you are
interested, please contact Glosa author Wendy Ashby (Glosa Education
Organisation, 35 Wingfield Road; Kingston Upon Thames; Surrey KT2 5LR;
ENGLAND). Sorry, no online-version available yet.

## Zhongguo-lingua (Chinese)

Please visit the site of Prof. [Liu
Haitao](http://htliu.nease.net/glosa.html) (or click here for a
[copy](gid/glch.htm)) for a Chinese translation of the GlosaÂ 1000
wordlist.\
Please prefer the English lists of GID above, if it is possible for you.

## The Word Kitchen
Only for specialists, nothing for people afraid of problems:

[gidhist.htm](gid/gidhist.htm) with further information to the GID and
its history, [missing words](gid/gidmiss.htm) (perhaps this file is not
up-to-date), [synonyms in Core](gid/cosyn.htm) (perhaps this file is not
up-to-date), [Similar Synonyms](gid/simsyn.htm) (with solution
suggestions of Glosa author Wendy Ashby), a [\"Word Derivation
Scheme\"](gid/gwds.htm).

Some changes have been made to the [Central list](gid/centra.htm) (see
above). For those with historical interest the [original central
list](gid/centrao.htm) could be found here.

## French
The [French-Glosa](gid/frgl1k.htm) list (see above \"French\") is from
the book \"FranÃ§aisÂ -GlosaÂ 1000\" by the Glosa authors Wendy Ashby and
Ron Clark themselves, but with some [corrections](gid/frglcorr.htm).\
Only for historical interest, -Â please do not use it!Â -: here you can
have a look at their old, original and uncorrected [French
list](gid/frgl1ko.htm).\
The reversed list [Glosa-French](gid/gl1kfr.htm) (see above \"French\")
is computer-generated from the corrected French-Glosa list. The book has
no Glosa-French list in it.

## Spanish
The [Spanish-Glosa](gid/esgl1k.htm) list (see above \"Spanish\") is from
the book \"EspaÃ±olÂ -GlosaÂ 1000\" by Richard Burrows and the Glosa
authors Wendy Ashby and Ron Clark themselves, but with some
[corrections](gid/esglcorr.htm).\
Only for historical interest, -Â please do not use it!Â -: here you can
have a look at their old, original and uncorrected [Spanish
list](gid/esgl1ko.htm).\
The reversed list [Glosa-Spanish](gid/gl1kes.htm) (see above
\"Spanish\") is computer-generated from the corrected Spanish-Glosa
list. The book has no Glosa-Spanish list in it.
